We make the Working World more Human and Ecological, so we donate Revenue for Certified Reforestation. As Publisher Best of HR - Berufebilder .de® with an unique Book Concept, on-demand eCourses and News Service we share 15 years of Experience with our Customers (Samsung, Otto, State Institutions). By the Top20-Blogger Simone Janson, referenced in ARD, ZEIT, WELT, Wikipedia .

Although every precaution has been taken in the preparation of this book, the publisher assumes no responsibility for any errors or omissions or for any damages resulting from the use of the information contained herein.

All books published by Simone Janson | Best of HR – Berufebilder.de® are available in German and English language. Please read the notes on machine learning translation at the end of the book.

All works of the publisher Simone Janson | Best of HR – Berufebilder.de®, including their parts, are protected by copyright. Any use outside the narrow limits of copyright law is prohibited without the consent of the publisher and the author. This applies in particular to electronic or other duplication, translation, distribution and public disclosure.





Introduction: How this book supports you





Dear readers,

We are delighted that you bought this book and want to use it to help you find information and solve your specific problem - just like thousands of other readers before you.





Add-on, press reviews and customer feedback


Part of your book purchase are therefore also add-ons, working materials that you as a reader can download free of charge from https://berufebilder.de/en/academy/ You can find out how to do this by reading on.

The FAZ, one of Germany's most well-known newspapers, certifies one of our titles "well realizable tips", also otherwise our work was recognized by newspapers or specialized media like ZEIT, Süddeutsche, personalmagazin or Personalführung and customers such as the Press and Information Office of the German Federal Government are grateful. Further reviews as well as information on free review copies can be found at https://berufebilder.de/en/press/.





Content of the book


CLIMATE PROTECTION AND KNOWLEDGE: With this book you support - documented - afforestation projects, you quickly receive compact information and checklists from experts (overview in the table of contents) as well as advice that has been tried and tested in practice and that leads step by step to success, also thanks to add-on. Because anyone who wants to convince customers of a service in the long term is well advised to deal with the effects of their body language on other people. Because potential customers unconsciously notice very quickly when someone wants to persuade them or talk to them. The reason: interlocutors recognize lies and manipulation very precisely and thereby quickly lose trust. However, anyone who understands it as a sales or marketing expert to use their gestures and facial expressions specifically can use them for their success in sales and thus achieve the greatest possible profit.

In addition, our unique publishing concept offers you many best practice tips and examples from successful managers, entrepreneurs and other exciting personalities.





Structure of the book


Various, possibly contradictory, facts of the topic are dealt with very deliberately. This enables you as a reader to examine and reflect on the various pros and cons aspects of the topic and to weigh them up in the event of a decision.

The clear structure and our special, very detailed table of contents will help you to find the information you require quickly and according to your needs and to put it directly into practice.





Information as desired and additional material to the book!


Under the motto Information as desired we will compile exactly the information you were looking for. The book also includes, for example, an eCourse with worksheet for working through, which you as a reader can obtain free of charge from our academy at https://berufebilder.de/en/academy/. You can find out how to do this in the final part of the book.

Each book you can also purchase as a member https://berufebilder.de/en/member/ with a 20 percent discount as a member edition directly on Best of HR - Berufebilder.de®. You can find all our book titles under https://berufebilder.de/en/publisher/. The registration takes place under https://berufebilder.de/en/member/.

In addition to the membership discount, as a Premium Member you will even receive a flat rate for one year with all learning materials, downloads and premium content on our website for free.





Personal eBooks and eCourses


You want an individual eBook topic or an eCourse on a special topic? You can also find this in our publishing house under https://berufebilder.de/en/publisher/.

In the academy of Best of HR - Berufebilder.de® you find additional eMail courses with individual setting of tasks, personal support and certificate.





Successfully negotiate prices in 5 levels: call professionally prices

// By Lothar Lay





Again and again in negotiation situations this "fatal" question about the price comes within a few seconds before the seller even has a chance to present his offer.





The total package counts


Now a salesperson who is “run over” in this way must get the curve for professional pricing. This is not that difficult if you follow a few rules. Because here it is extremely important that sellers present their ENTIRE offer confidently and convincingly. The goal must be not only to present the product and the price, but the “total package” of all services and advantages.

It's very special: not "we have the better product" but "we are the better partner!" Their main task as a seller at this stage of the price negotiation is to communicate that message credibly.





A psychologically correct price entry


Build up your argumentation in a conversation-oriented manner and work out convincingly and excitingly both the rational and the emotional benefits. Your customer must finally be convinced that only YOU are the ideal partner for him. If you do that, then the price slips slowly to a next door.

Very important: do not call your price hesitant or apologetic. But confidently, directly, with a firm voice, from which the pride to offer such high-quality products or services can be heard.





So you come to a positive conclusion


Develop a positive inner attitude to the price conversation. Show self-awareness! Take action of course! Take action by yourself! These practices and basic rules help to achieve a positive conclusion:

Formulate customer-oriented: Make the benefits and benefits of your offer for your customer and the other parties crystal clear. Do not say "this costs" but "you get ..."

Sell ​​from top to bottom: Always bid the "Full Equipment" rather than the "Economy" version. Round up instead of off.

Create valuable negotiating masses for yourself: Take all the costs into the offer. In practice, this is often given away, as certain expenses are simply overlooked!

How to deal with pressure through offensive alternatives: Suppose you submit an offer for 150.000 €. The buyer's reaction: "You have to down 10%." This is the moment to pull off an offensive alternative. They answer "That would be possible if ...". Then explain what makes the most sense to you, eg. For example, "if you add another product from our house to your assortment," or "if you buy in bulk, I can grant you special rates." Set realistic counterclaims rather than dismissively dismissing them as a shock. Acting correctly here has already saved many a price negotiation from the final end.



If you have now given your price confidently and convincingly, you go to level three of the price negotiation step, the professional offer management. In practice there are endless missed opportunities.





Individually must be


Companies are putting huge sums of money into the sand because they do not encourage their salespeople to create offers efficiently and individually and to follow them professionally. Especially in this important phase something goes wrong.

Buyers hate nothing more than to receive irrelevant standard offers that you can tell at a mile against the wind that they were not created individually and tailored to their needs. Nevertheless, many sellers send out such pamphlets again and again. This is fatal and wrong! Because this type of offer leaves the buyer with no choice but to plunge immediately into the price and want to push it down.





The offer as a written sales discussion


Most sellers hand over quotations to clerks. They know neither the companies involved nor the contact persons, often do not receive any background information and can therefore only proceed according to scheme F.

The wishes of the customers are almost never to the person who creates the offer. This is the place where immense potential is lost to create an offer that has high chances to be accepted.





The standard does not interest


Because: standard options do not interest anyone. With this, companies that allow this will throw away money! Information such as "what is important to the customer, what solution is he looking for", thus fall through the communicative rust and are lost forever. Thus, companies unknowingly lose high sales. What a waste!

An offer is a written sales talk. Therefore, a target-oriented offer can only be created directly by the seller, since he has conducted the discussions with the customer and knows the wishes and needs. The seller should also always be the first point of contact for the purchasing departments and without exception take care of the follow-up of the offers.





Follow up, follow up, follow up


The best individualized offer is of no use if sellers send it and then remain inactive. Very many orders do not come about, because a professional and strategic follow-up of the offers is not.

Many sellers are extremely unsure at this stage which steps to take and when to do. "Do I even catch up?" "If so, when?" Many then say, "Yes, but the customer has never reported back." Logically, the customer or future customer has piles of offers on his desk. Anyone who does not remember his offer in a subtle but concise manner has already lost.





The art of correct comprehension


Customers want to feel coveted, feel that they are staying with them. Wise sellers already announce in the offer, on which day they will announce themselves again and do that also on exactly that date. Killer statements like "Has my offer also arrived and is something already decided?" Should be avoided.

Who asks so, gets the lapidary answer that nothing is decided, and the conversation is already over. The right question is: "Does my offer meet your expectations?". Then the other person has to make a clear statement and say, yes, it fits or tells what the company still wants. In the former case, the seller can immediately hook and ask if he can confirm the order. In the second case he receives the opportunity to improve and complete.

Here, the circle closes for the careful provision of services. Most buyers are so glad to receive a well-founded, personalized offer that meets their needs, that you can then accept without a long time torch and award the contract.





More self-confidence for sellers: customer love does not rust

// By Dirk Kreuter





There are three reasons why sellers lose customers: The customer dies or goes bankrupt. They did a bad job and pushed the customer away. Or the competition did a good job and pulled the customer away. And now?





Once lost, always lost?


In the first case you can actually get nothing more.

In the second case, you owe it to the customer to offer him compensation.

And in the third case, you owe it to your company to win the customer back.



Now, however, many sellers say: A customer who has jumped, does not want anymore. He did not quit for nothing. He has had bad experiences with our offer and is now so annoyed that no ten special offers would return him. Once lost, lost forever. - Perhaps you think. But that's not true!





Recapture customers


Research shows that it is much easier to win back customers who have dropped out than to conquer new ones. Even if they leave you: At one point these customers were convinced of your offer. In any case, there is a relationship between you.

And familiar things are easier to handle than to adapt to something completely new. You can take advantage of this natural persistence of thinking here. Maybe it was just a trifle that bothered the customer - something that can be fixed.





No fear of the conflict


Resist the malfunction: Leaped customers do not come back. The fear of going to lost customers is not rational. Actually, the only fear here is fear. The fear of a conflict.

I'm not kidding: If you call the annoyed customer, then you get your ear full first. The former customer tells you little about what has disturbed him so far in your company, your offer, your service. You can not get around this confusion.





Listen carefully!


So what? Are you so tender that you can not stand it? This is the chance for you! You just have to listen attentively. Because from his litany, you can already see how you can recapture the customer.

As soon as he gets rid of his anger, he waits for your reaction. This is your opportunity: If you are honestly apologizing now, take the opportunity to repair the relationship. By providing a concrete compensation to your customer and asking him exactly what the service / offer should look like in the future so that we can get back into business?





The door is wide open!


That's it. Thus, the door is again wide open. Your customer will be surprised by your interest in him and also be a bit flattered. After all, it is the pure appreciation that you bring to him.

In this way, you even have the opportunity to make an A customer from a former B customer - by tailoring your offer exactly to your needs.





Correctly assess your potential


What is important is that you must show the customer how important this customer relationship is to you. But it is worth investing a quarter of an hour and a slightly stressed auditory canal, right?

So: By really informing yourself about your market and your customers, you can accurately assess their potential. You can prioritize the customers and your activities and thus fully exploit the potential. Where does that take you? Best to the moon. And if you want to go to the moon, you have to aim as high as possible. Even if it misses the moon, it hits at least one star. Set yourself ambitious goals! The more you trust yourself, the more you can achieve.





Setbacks are included


Is not there a risk of overconfidence? If you want to go too high, it can really be nasty to fall on your nose. Yes, that's right. But regression is part of life.

But you are right on one point: there is no culture of error in our society. Anyone who has gone bankrupt with their company is considered a failure. From then on, you don't trust him anymore.





Failed entrepreneurs are more successful on the second attempt


What a mistake! A survey conducted by the Boston Consulting Group shows that entrepreneurs who have failed once are more successful with the second trial than those who have never experienced a failure: their turnover and their number of employees are growing faster.

Actually logical: these people now know how to do it and what they have to guard against. Above all, they have the courage to try out something new, and can not be put to small. You know what you want. And that's why they get it.





If you do not have any goals, you do not


The problem with sales is: Most sellers do not know this. Imagine: I even meet salespeople who have no goals at all! They simply do what they say in their calendar.

They will, in turn, visit the customers who are scheduled for their tour planning. In short, they only think about what they have to do, but not what they want to achieve. But those who do not have goals do not.





What helps to achieve goals?


You may already have heard of the Harvard study, after which the three percent of students who had written their professional goals in writing earned significantly more than the remaining 97 percent after ten years.

Mark McCormack describes them in detail in his book "What You Do not Learn at Harvard Business School."





Visualize your goals


Another Dominican University study has investigated what helps achieve goals. 267 participants from different countries have been divided into several groups:

Some were silent about certain goals they wanted to reach in the next four weeks,

the second group recorded the objectives,

the third wrote down what it was going to do to reach its goal,

the fourth also told their friends about their aims

and the fifth wrote additional weekly reports of their progress.





Perform regular success control


The result is foreseeable: those who have written their goal have had the double success in comparison with those who had only done it in their heads.

The best success was achieved by those who regularly wrote reports about their progress, that is, a success check.





The power of voice: technical language and code-switching

// By Dr. Roland Forster





Language really means nothing more than words and rules on how the individual elements are linked together. This is especially noticeable when the statements are not understood - for example, in a jargon.





Danger in the jargon?


In specialized languages ​​terms are used, often abbreviated speaking, which colleagues understand without difficulty - but only these. This can go so far that such a speaker linguistically can not change to another level, because he is already bogged down in this particular language.

For example, if you are talking to a customer first contact, you do not have to be surprised if the customer is asked to ask for another consultant.





Negotiations are about understanding


Negotiations are not just about content, you just have to talk to each other. And you have to understand!

The underlying problem must first be mirrored from the outside; But that is often not easy, because the security in the conceptual is always a training goal and signals professionalism.





Who are my listeners?


But here too, it is not about black or white in order to be good or bad but meaningful are mixtures, which are produced in the respective communication situation and organized for precisely these partners at this time at this place in this context.

It is always helpful to have a precommunicative situation analysis that can provide information about the expected audience.





A too low vocabulary?


It is much easier to work on another phenomenon: it might sound exaggerated, but on several occasions the vocabulary of young counselors is very low.

The candidates in question are technically really good, but in their verbal performance they use "have", "do" and "exist" almost stereotypically.





The ability to code switching


Linguistics speaks here of a restricted code. - Simple remedy: read, and not again, literary literature, but proper books. Also fast help promising: write even texts, fantasy stories, or also: diary.

The vocabulary can not be large enough. The goal is a so-called elaborated code, that is, the ability to have sufficient choices for formulations based on a large vocabulary, depending on the partner, prehistory, subject and situation; this also includes the ability to code-switching.

What a communication trainer regularly experiences in seminars, workshops and further education events is untapped opportunities and the potential of the participants. The importance of voice and language is often underestimated.





Why the voice is so important


Thus, not a few consultants are not easy to understand - linguistically, speaking, acoustically - although it is generally known how crucial voice and speech are in consulting work.

When asked, 90% of those affected had never been corrected or informed, or had even been advised of exercise options. Against this background, all behavioral training in the company should, so much is already said, always be about observing and analyzing the areas of voice, language, speaking. Development opportunities can then be identified from this.





Voice and language carry the personality


Negotiate with business partners, present in front of customers, appear in a telephone and video conference, conduct meetings - in all forms of verbal communication, voice, language and speech are the deciding factors in the communication success.

Voice and speech as the realization of language are known to carry the personality. The aim of the following considerations is therefore to draw attention to parameters whose further development contributes to the optimization of the communication personality.





Effort-free speaking is learnable


The voice should work effortlessly, be resilient and also be melodious - pretty high demands. You have to know that the voice is sort of genetically fixed; nevertheless, what we organize with the voice - the voice guidance, the sound of the voice, the right 'seat' - is changeable.

So it does not have to be that someone speaks softly and defensively to the end of the life, just because he or she somehow started with it. It is not a fixed fate to speak with so much pressure and exertion, and also quickly to hear hoarseness that after ten minutes the first listeners become restless, get involved with other things, turn off the effort to listen to a certain damaged voice, is simply too big.





When listeners get hoarse


What that means for presentations, is obvious. In an extreme case, a listener of such a voice can subsequently be even hoarse - although he has not said a word.

If one also considers that lecturers should consider well what they are drinking before the oratory, or in the middle, it becomes clear how complex this subject matter is: juices have astringent (apple) or mucus (orange), coffee and tea dry out, mineral water with a lot of carbon dioxide increases the entertainment value of the presentation - so: only water is announced.





Bargaining with discount: what is allowed is what is allowed?

// By Kurt-Georg Scheible





Salami tactics, stress test, rambotics, all-in, you're out. Do you only understand train station now? Then you are like most people. Everything has already been heard, but as in one breath. Since the context is missing. Yes and no.





The nasty tricks of buyers


The words above are terms that refer to the tricks of the trade buyers. I have called this until recently "The 16 nasty tricks the buyers". I do not do it anymore because there have been a few more lately. Well, I stopped counting.

The importance of informing about some of these approaches, for example, in sales seminars, in cooperation with buyers, has continued. Also, to protect yourself against it.





Stress the negotiating partner


For some of these tricks, the buyer is simply concerned with adding artificial "mental" weight to his negotiating partner, the seller.

To get him out of his way, to make him unconcentrated, to provoke mistakes and negligence and thereby to generate negotiating advantages himself. This is so in sport and business.





stress test


Do you know, for example, the stress test? Let's go: Let's say you are the purchaser. At the beginning of the meeting, you put a task to your interlocutor - the salesman. Must have nothing to do with the topic at stake. It can also be a tricky puzzle from a puzzle book.

That's just a bit nice to moderate, like this: "Yesterday I saw a riddle and I can not get it. Is it possible to get the result of 1 from the numbers 3, 4, 6 and 24 only with the basic operations, ie plus, minus, time and split, where all four numbers must be used, but only used once? "





Puzzles and other vulgarities


And then you go - not without first trying a little together - on the agenda, talk about this and that, just what it is necessary to negotiate. And ask in between times to check whether your opponent is synonymous not out of his head and he still pondering. If he has not done so yet, now he is guaranteed to do it.

And then you return to your agenda - and talk about prices, deliveries, discounts, discounts, delivery terms - and just bring back the sheet that says: 1, 3, 4, 6, +, , x, 24, and push it away again. In this context, ask in the same way what the Naturalrabatt looks like, or the special event for the company jubilee.





Simply distract!


Just continue, gladly in combination with another trick, and leave the note with the numbers quietly visible on the table. You can also push him around and say, "that while it looks so simple and yet somehow difficult".

Increase the workload a bit by letting your interlocutor calculate something. For example, how increased sales volumes affect the price. Or what he might lose, if you get the goods in the future "ex works" instead of "free house".





By the way, the really important things to clarify!


All you need is an "approximate price", which you doubt first, whether it is correct or not. If the seller then recalculates and finds that he has calculated correctly the first time, then say: "I'm probably already quite confused because of the strange task: 1, 3, 4, 6, 24 - you know. "

What will happen: Your business partner always has a part of his thoughts and thus his brain power at the darned puzzle. You always remind him of it. And do you know this, too, if something looks so easy and you do not get it?





Targeted manipulation


And while you seemingly think together about the riddle, you get by the way, the promise for the special action on the company anniversary ...

Well, no one has said that there are no dirty tricks in purchasing. Because be sure: For some, everything is allowed, which brings percentages. If you want to defend against it, then you have already taken the first step, because "danger recognized, danger banned".





Afraid of selling? 7 science tips

// By Prof. Dr. Martin Christian Morgenstern





Many sellers prefer to see themselves as experts or technicians in sales rather than shouting salespeople. Your task: Consulting and development of solutions! Kaltakquise, brr, no, on the other hand feel that many sales experts as intrusive. And yet they are expected to actively sell. 7 tips from behavioral researchers.





Sell ​​- jump in cold water


Selling is an emotional leap into the cold water: most people feel very uncomfortable when swimming. To bring service or products to the man is for them like peddling and manipulation. Using psychotricks to cheat the customer something is intolerable. In short, you feel selling as indecent! Scientists have long been investigating what exactly happens emotionally.





Customers: gone or gone?


Everyone is afraid to be rejected by others. Only experience is the end of fear! Man is a more highly developed mammal and works on the basis of emotions. Emotions are the decision about how the brain classifies certain situations, persons, objects, and opinions.

There are two basic directions "towards something" and "away from something". As soon as people enter into a communicative relationship, so-called mirror neurons begin to simulate the emotional state of the interlocutor. Within this given framework then the interpretation of the spoken content takes place.





Sell ​​- Lead without permission?


However, most people - without proper routine in sales - have a natural inhibition to lead other people to something as well as to be rejected.

The reason for this lies in the fact that the human being has stood on the development level of a huntsman and collector several 10.000 years ago. At this time, it would have been more than unhealthy to want to lead foreigners without a hundred percent permission from the state.





7 Tips: Overcome fear of rejection


But social rejection would also entail significant disadvantages such as loss of status or group exclusion. In order to prevent this potentially dangerous subject, every human being is equipped with an inhibiting mechanism.

This mechanism is always active when people do not feel completely confident in their leadership role. An example of this can be found each time we meet new people. The interaction is then usually accompanied by a polite inhibition, which certainly looks a little different for each person. The following 8 tips will help.





1. When anxiety determines the body language


Contrary to all precautionary mechanisms of nature, selling means to take the lead immediately with generally strangers. However, if you are not used to this, you will react to this critical situation with the emotion fear and experience an inhibition of behavior.

The emotional anxiety then determines the framework of his body-language as well as vocal expression and his thoughts. If the sales situation does not exist immediately, that is, the seller still has to call the customer either by telephone or in person, the emotional ground-based fear can then lead to the fact that the action is not even begun at all.





2. Cognitive dissonance reduction - how the brain establishes avoidance behavior


In addition, there is a very interesting phenomenon when it comes to justifying the avoidance behavior. The upper "reasonable" brain states have limited access to the lower emotional (and I call them functional) brain levels.

Because any form of upper-brain behavior needs to be "reasonable," they begin to interpret lower-level behavior. This process is called cognitive dissonance reduction.





3. To be as positive as possible to ourselves


This usually happens in a form that makes your own self-image look as positive as possible. Accordingly, a behavior avoiding the sales interaction is often interpreted in the direction of the following variants: "This customer does not want to buy anything anyway" or "Now is not the right time" or "I still need certain information or things before".

These answers also sound much more fluid and are also more compatible with the ego than variants of the kind: "I'm afraid to be rejected" or "I have no idea how I could convince this person" or "I just feel uncomfortable a stranger To talk to people so cold, to sell him something ".





4. No way out - now?


Another Accompanying Effect of Emotions Fear in sales arises whenever the untrained salesman can not escape the situation as previously written. Then voice and body language radiate the emotion to the mirror neurons of the potential customer.

Thus, the potential customer feels an emotional frame in the basic direction "away from something", whereas the content in turn has the basic direction "towards something".





5. The "how" is important?


However, because the How in communication has much more effect than what, this contradiction leads at least to a confusion. Unclearness in the statement is fatal in the sale, because a potential customer can not possibly be convinced by someone who is obviously not convinced by himself.

That is why it is indispensable to deal with one's own anxiety for every person who goes for the first time to the terrain of sale. Active activity with fear, in turn, will be the end.





6. What does the research say?


This is also the result of a scientific study by me. The aim of this study was to investigate whether the individual degree of anxiety of newcomers in the distribution affects future success. The answer is no! On the contrary, sales-related anxiety has diminished over time.

You now know why initial anxiety in this profession is perfectly normal and requires experience to develop total laxity. Also, you have learned why subject-related fear can also be a good reminder for professionals. But how do you deal with fear?





7. Selling means moving people emotionally


When selling, it is the goal to move someone through communication to "something" to lead or lead. This goal can either be a spiritual or a material good.

Therefore, regardless of the exact conversation content, the seller must necessarily have a body language and vocal emotional expression "towards something".





Conclusion: reduce fear, build experience


Anxiety degradation is always an experience building. These experiences can be divided into two fields. The first is a basic desensitization before rejection by other people.

An important step to reduce anxiety is to gain good experience in sales itself. For this to work, a routine is important. A routine is a kind of automatic sales program. It consists of a ritualized preparation, in the thing and mentally. Then you start a communication sequence of emotional and verbal elements. Over time, the fear will disappear.

Text comes from: Gelassen gewinnen: Ab jetzt reitest du den Affen! (2014) from Prof. Dr. Martin Christian Morgenstern, published by BusinessVillage Verlag, Reprints by friendly permission of the publisher.





Sell ​​and Price Negotiation: Make Customers Happy

// By Oliver Schumacher





Frequently, the seller's price is hotter than the customer. The topic of price negotiation is rather annoying for most sellers. But does everything really matter and price in the sale?





Customers act of contradictory


Customers are unpredictable. They get upset when, after refueling a few miles away, the fuel is two cents cheaper.

On the other hand, they spend a lot of money because they really want something that does not fit their needs. But reason number 1, why both private and business customers like to trade, is the fun of negotiating - the will to succeed.





Interchangeable offers


Many buyers are trained to make the seller aware that his offer is interchangeable and the only relevant is the price.

They have the task of pushing the price. They are paid for this. Also, the products to be procured with the previously defined minimum quality must fit into a budget specification.





Who asks wins


It is quite normal that buyers ask for a discount to get better prices. They also know exactly who is asking. The estate does not come by itself.

On the other hand, the seller should know that corporate buyers are often unaware of what they are shopping for. But everyone can talk about a prize.





The body as a traitor


If the seller is not at his price, then feel the opposite (on the phone, by the way). As with children who have "eaten" something, they usually reveal their body language, their voice and their eye contact.

They automatically pull the suspicion on themselves. That's why it's so important for sellers to sell themselves the price first. Only then can this be enforced even with the customer sovereign.





Appreciative response


Sellers should practice intensively how to respond appreciatively to estate claims. Just to buckle at the first demand signals that more is possible. It is better to think beforehand whether they can offer the shopper a "bonbon" if a direct discount is not immediately possible.

In general, claims for a price reduction should be repelled at least twice at eye level. Thus many orders can be made without any discounts. If they are necessary, the customer has at least a success story.





Salamitactics


Buyers are happy to work with the so-called salami tactic: they are always opening new barrels in order to "take off" the seller ever further. Sellers should not fall for it. By ensuring commitment from the beginning, they can counteract this tactic. Often the question is: "Is there anything else besides the price that prevents you from buying?" If there is no clearly clear answer, there is usually something else as well. But then a "what is it?" Should follow to clarify the situation.





Clarity helps


If the answer to the first question is a clear NO, it often brings clarity with a reformulation: "That means we will only do the contract today if we agree on the price. Is that so?". It would be wrong to react immediately with a discount offer.

It is better to ask for the asking price of the customer. If the price claim is overdrawn, the seller can still just as friendly as clearly reject: "I'm sorry, I really can not do that. But let's see how else we can get into business. What do you expect from working with our product? "





recommended action


Practice how to better enforce your prices. Your prices ultimately cover the costs in your company. The better you can get your prices through, the more profitable the order will be for your business.





Authentic and good selling: 7 tips for storytelling & body language in sales

// By Lars Schäfer





If you want the cash register to ring, you have to respond to the wishes of your customers. But that always says so easy. 7 quick tips for more empathy in sales.





Empathy counts: respond to customers


Important in Emotional Selling is also to perceive how your counterpart is really ticking. This is usually something customers can do about the following:

What is he saying to you now verbally and non-verbally?

How is his body language: more towards you and open or yet closed and turned away from you?

He speaks loudly or quietly, fast or slow, rhetorically honed or rather simply in the choice of words

And above all: What does he want to tell you between the lines?





Read between the lines


There, most of the information is hidden, there are the real emotional motivations again.

So what helps us as a salesperson to empathize with other people is asking questions and then actively listening.





How to win the trust of other people


Imagine this: How would you feel if you, as a customer, were facing a salesman who fulfills all the following points:

He is totally focused on you

He asks you questions first and then hears even listening properly.

You are facing someone who you can look at and look at his body language, that he is really interested in you.





Better selling: Listening is the first step


Would you feel well and even finally understood? This is the case for most customers who are allowed to experience something like this. Listening is one of the first steps to gain the trust of the customer.

Unfortunately, this remains a nice dream for many customers. To make this a reality for your customers, you should keep reading.





7 tips to recognize customer needs


If you want to sell something, it's a good idea to rate your customers correctly. Because only if you fulfill the wishes of your customer, you will bring the trade also to a good conclusion. The means to retain customers: storytelling. 7 quick tips:

Make sure that your body language is open, ie facing the customer, hands in the field of view of the customer, arms loosely on the body (not clasped).

Keep eye contact with your customer in a natural way (do you know these bull-bulls?). Let the customer finish.

Even if it is sometimes difficult: stay focused in conversation and please do not be distracted: you could not notice something important.

Please be patient with so-called multiple speakers: through clever interrogation, you can get to the point.

Work with approval signals or noises such as "mhm" (Dear female readers, you certainly know that from telephoning ...). This signals to the customer - especially on the phone, if he can not see you - that you are still "in the matter". But please use these lute portioned: a "mhm" every 2 seconds seems implausible and confused only.

From time to time repeat what you said in your own words, so that you can be sure that you are on the right track. It is also called paraphrasing.

If you have not understood something correctly, ask, ask questions. Always try to capture what the other really means, tell your customer what you've heard between the lines.





Negotiate successfully in 6 steps: Stay objective and fair

// By Prof. Dr. Martin-Niels Däfler





This sequence is not just about classic sales negotiations, but generally about conversations, in which you try to get your point of view, your idea or your solution for someone else.





Negotiation meeting


Above all, the difference between a meeting or a meeting and a negotiation is that meetings are more of an informative-creative-tuning nature and are designed to solve a specific problem, while negotiating is primarily about reaching agreement on a particular issue.

Or, to put it more succinctly, it's not about the truth, it's about your success. Nevertheless, I have deliberately refrained from presenting "tricks" or unfair methods of negotiation - and there are a few of them.

However, I think that who objectively and fairly negotiates, in the long run has more of it than the one who seeks to achieve his advantage through feints and deceitful maneuvers. Below you will learn how to proceed in a negotiation.





Step 1: Prepare the transaction well


Make it a principle not to negotiate without first considering the following points:

The most important prerequisite for a successful negotiation is: Clarify what you want to achieve. What is your goal? Think about what your "bargaining power" is. Where could you make concessions if you can not agree? Be aware that there should be no loser in negotiations. So do not go into negotiations if you know in advance that you will not be prepared to deviate at least a little from your position.

Find out which people will participate on the "opposite side". What expectations and goals do your interlocutors have? Which motives are they driving? What minimum requirements will you not be able to do without, so what will be your lowest bargaining threshold?

Set an agenda. Make a list of talk points and think about how to strategically arrange them. Where will your interlocutors be more likely to agree? Such points should be at the beginning.

Set the time and place tactically favorable. Whenever you have the opportunity, you should conduct negotiations on "domestic territory". Schedule buffering times if the negotiation takes longer than you plan. The later in the day the start of negotiations is, the more likely the participants want to go home - and the sooner you may agree.

Bring supportive contacts to the negotiation. Which colleagues or supervisors could help you enforce your request? Who has a high reputation with the other side? Who has sufficient technical and content competence to stand by your side? In general, your negotiation site should have at least as many participants as the other side.





Step 2: Welcome your negotiating partners


Make for a pleasant conversation atmosphere. Usually, negotiations do not start immediately with the actual topic - before that is the small talk.

Through some personal words (so-called "icebreakers") try to establish a positive relationship with your interlocutors; Do not stay too long in conversation.





Step 3: Name the topic of conversation


Before the actual negotiation begins, you should name the framework data.

Explain briefly the planned agenda, formulate the goal of the negotiation and tell how much time you have planned for the interview.





Step 4: Start with the interview


Now the actual transaction begins. In order to make progress quickly and to achieve concrete results, please note the following:

The nuts and bolts of negotiation is the ability to listen. You often learn more when you shut up.

Pay much attention to your nonverbal behavior - your body language.

Stick to the agenda and do not mix topics.

After each agenda item, drag an interim result. Keep this in writing.

Put the benefit at the center of your argument. Show how your proposal helps to increase the benefit to the other side.

Always document your statements with facts. Stay in the frame. They are not on an Arabian bazaar.

Avoid the strategy, first of all, to demand a lot more, in order to give way. This is not only unjust but also discrediting you. In future negotiations, you will no longer be taken seriously or always assume that you are prepared for clear discounts or compromises.

Make other suggestions that your opponent or competitor can not refuse badly. Of course, you can and must name the arguments that speak factually and professionally for your idea, but refrain from anything derogatory or devaluing.

Do not put pressure on yourself, because you will not achieve any viable compromises. Therefore, do not use statements that leave your conversation partner with the choice to accept or reject your offer. Remember, you are not a blackmail but a bargaining partner. Not only in Asia but also with us is the principle: none of the participants may lose his face.





Step 5: Make a decision


If you are suitable, you should draw a conclusion. Repeat all the important points that you have agreed with each other in order to dispel any remaining misunderstandings.

Clarify the next concrete steps and determine responsible persons and appointments.





Step 6: Prepare the transaction


Inform all affected colleagues and employees in your institute / company about the results. Implement agreements as soon as possible and analyze how the negotiation went from your point of view.

Could you achieve your goals?

Were you a fair negotiator?

Where did you make mistakes?

What could you do better next time?





Negotiate Well and Negotiate Negotiations: 8 Leadership Tips

// By Michael Lorenz





"Boss, is not it enough if I finish reporting next week? I just can not get in ... "Situations like these are probably familiar to you from your everyday life as a manager. But are you also reacting appropriately? 8 Tips To Properly Negotiate.





Good bargaining: it is useful for that


We conduct negotiations on a daily basis: with colleagues, supervisors, employees or business partners.

This often raises the question: do we represent our point of view convincingly or do we often allow ourselves to be knocked open by colleagues and employees? Because: Competent negotiation is not for nothing one of the most important, but at the same time the most underestimated tools.

Often, however, we overlook what the real goal of a negotiation should be. It is almost never a matter of enforcing one's will in any case, but above all of finding a sensible, mutually acceptable agreement. Ideally, the interests of both negotiating partners will be fulfilled, so that the agreement will last for a longer period of time and that the topic will not be back on the agenda two weeks later.





In 8 steps to successful negotiation manager


The following four rules will help you to keep track of your goals in the future and bring negotiations to a successful conclusion.





1. Always stay objective


Actually, negotiations could be so easy: we communicate with our counterpart, everyone brings his arguments factually and together define a suitable approach. So far the theory. Unfortunately, we are not always dealing with topics that can be solved purely by logic and according to objective criteria. For example, when a co-worker comes to you to negotiate a salary increase, a lot of emotion resonates immediately. This is completely normal, after all we are all human!

However, this often leads to the fact that the objectivity in the heat of the moment ever gets lost. You already suspect what your employee wants to discuss with you as soon as he enters your office, right? Colleague Schmitt would probably like to ask for an extension of the deadline, while Mr Martens is certainly looking for a technical upgrade to the equipment of his workplace. Over time, we just know how people are ticking around us. For the daily togetherness that is advantageous in itself - in negotiations, this expectation but ensures that you start already with prejudice in the conversation.





2. Do not mix people, roles and viewpoints


So, even if it is difficult for you: Make an effort to separate the negotiating position of your counterpart from his person and previous situations. Only then can you be as open-minded as possible in the negotiation and argue as neutral as possible. Although we always have to deal with people while negotiating, they are often in a role. And out of this role and not as a human, they do not want something or something.

In other words, my contact person at the customer really believes that we will improve the quality of the seventh series of seminars when we change everything for the seventh time. She does not do that out of spite. She is only afraid to implement the respective requirements of her boss word for word. When we confuse man, role and purpose, we become emotional. We think the other wants to deliberately annoy us. When we emotionalize, we can not negotiate well. Emotions are the sure way into the conflict.





3. Think in objectives, not in viewpoints


Even if you make a great effort, you will experience repeated negotiations in which the fronts harden. What to do if each side insists on the correctness of their arguments and sticks to their position? Although it may be tempting: Do not play the boss card or your power position to end the negotiation by authority.

In this situation, the challenge for you is to look past the arguments to your own interests and those of your counterpart. It's best to ask specifically, "What would you like to achieve with this argument?" Or "Why does this goal seem so desirable to you?" Under certain circumstances, motives may emerge that you have not even considered before.





4. Dealing with the interests of your negotiating partners


It also happens again and again that negotiating partners are indeed in a role, but behave - in our view - not role-compliant. Imagine a shopper who only bought the last two service providers for price and fell heavily on his nose. Even though I think that a buyer must always be price sensitive, this can be very different in my current situation.

Honest engagement with the interests and intentions of the negotiating partners usually revives a stalled negotiation and keeps it in flux. In many negotiations one would have been able to agree retrospectively - had the respective motives been disclosed.





5. Create choices


Only if I do not want to build a lasting relationship can I confront people hard.

I grew up in the Rhineland. There are beautiful destinations. Some of them can only be seen twice in life. For example the Drachenfels in the Siebengebirge on the Rhine. The first time as a trip in the third grade and then much, much later in advanced age.

"Cup of coffee 3,80. But there are only pots out here. "With the beautiful view and on the beautiful day, the pot of coffee can also cost 7,80 €. We do not want to build a lasting relationship. However, if one intends to design a permanent relationship, the ideal goal of a negotiation is to find the solution that will benefit both parties.





6. Find solutions


If the arguments are largely exchanged, it is time to get to the solution. In some cases, two options may be sufficient - often an either-or not. Therefore, it makes sense to increase the number of possible options.

For example, an employee would like to work in the home office two days a week? The chance of reaching an agreement is much higher if you do not just consider a "yes" or "no" - but create choices. Ideally, you will even discover a combination solution that will allow both sides to leave the table satisfied. Choices make it easy for the other person to move towards you and your suggestions.





7. If no agreement is possible: Look for criteria that can be agreed upon


If an agreement between the parties is not possible, it can be difficult again just before the end of the trial. If you can see that they can not go any further, they should stop the negotiation and find common decision-making criteria that will allow the selection of alternatives developed in the previous step.

Agreeable criteria are those that are independent of the objectives of the parties. You probably suspect it already: Criteria like "I do not feel well with it" have no stock here. Particularly helpful are easily comprehensible criteria such as costs, turnover, studies, acknowledged opinions or even expert appraisals.





8. Use neutral assessment criteria


In a salary negotiation, for example, compensation studies by recognized organizations such as the VDI or renowned consultants can provide clues to possible criteria that can be agreed upon. This phase becomes especially important when both sides negotiate a lot, wrong decisions are expensive or difficult to revise. You know this phase from the unification efforts between unions and eg the public employers.

While one as an idler thinks: "My goodness, the demand of Ver.di for 200 EUR salary increase for the lower income groups in the public sector, that's really not so much" is it for the employer to three-digit million sums. Every year.

When it comes to a lot, you should insist on the application of neutral and objective assessment criteria. The time invested is worthwhile, because the solutions found in this way are usually sustainable.





Body language: interpret handshake

// By Dr. Gabriele Cerwinka, Gabriele Schranz





The welcome with hand stroke is common in our latitudes. Their origin is clear: when we hand the other hand to the other, we also show him that we do not hold a weapon, that we come in peaceful intent.





Complex welcome greetings


But since we no longer think in the simple patterns of our Stone Age ancestors - "weapon = enemy, no weapon = friend - our welcome ritual has become much more complex. We have already dealt with the role of the eyes.

But how do our hands behave?

How do we hide the evil intentions?

What makes us think that we have the one or the other arrow in the quiver?





Bonecrusher Handshake


First there is the "bone crusher" handshake. The most beautiful smile, the friendliest words are drowned out by the painful sound when someone almost crushes our hands.

The person proves not only strength, but also lack of sensitivity: Such a handshake is perceived as an attack, as an injury - and indeed it is when we still feel the pressure minutes later and are barely able to hold our glass.

This power strangling often stifles a conversation already in the bud. You try to get rid of the "muscle man" as fast as possible.





The cold fish


The opposite of the "bonecrusher" is the "cold fish": the hand of the other lingers for seconds without any emotion and signs of life in ours. We conclude that there is complete disinterest in the other.

We are not worthy of a feeling, he does not want to feel us, do not get in touch with us. When this handshake occurs in conjunction with the previously described convulsive smile, the hurdle to an open conversation is almost insurmountable.





The hand in the bag


If a man holds his left hand in his handbag when he is shaking his hand, it is not for nothing as rude - the person so welcomed feels insecure. Is this only a gesture of rudeness, or is the other hiding a weapon in the courtbag?

Or does he just want to signal to me that he is simply looking for a casual, comradely conversation? Then the hand in the pocket means relaxed nonchalance: "I certainly do not attack you, my hand is not even ready to defend myself against you."





The slider


Another way to clearly mark out the fronts at the greeting and to contradict the real meaning of the welcome ritual is the "push away". You walk towards the other with your arms outstretched - but instead of slightly bending your hand when you shake your hand, i.e. letting the other man hold you, you keep your hand extended and push the other away.

In order to intensify this "pushing away", the left hand is often placed on the shoulder of the other. What should be friendly-jovial, however, is actually the assurance that the other does not come too close to any part of the body. Both hands push him away.





friend or foe


This greeting must have originated among hostile politicians who had to demonstrate friendship for the sake of the media. Who does not know the second typical "politician greeting" from the Cold War days, when they embraced each other intimately and made the viewer feel that they both just wanted to avoid looking each other in the eye - the Opponents should not immediately see the evil intentions in the other's eyes.

In addition, this allegedly friendly body contact allows the inconspicuous palpation of the other for hidden weapons - the embrace as disarmament.





Dominance handshake


The situation is similar with the "dominance handshake". In handshaking, the more dominant interlocutor turns the other's hand so that his own hand lies on top of the other from top to bottom. He brings the hand of the "opponent" into humility.

If the other person is not beaten, he might lay his second hand on the other's hand. What seems particularly heartfelt, is nothing but a power game - will the other now on his part again put his second hand on top?





From the Stone Age to the Cold War


You think that these forms of salutation had only existed in the Cold War? Far from it - a cold war still prevails - especially in professional life. It is likely that all these contradictory greetings have come about because we have to welcome countless people every day, especially in the professional world, whether we find them sympathetic or not.

We have to show kindness, we want something from them or at least want to leave a good impression. After all, you never know whether a potential customer is not in front of you ... The Stone Age man has just welcomed those with a handshake, which he really wanted to welcome!

Text comes from: Die Macht der versteckten Signale: Wortwahl - Körpersprache - Emotionen. Nonverbale Widerstände erkennen und überwinden (2014) from Dr. Gabriele Cerwinka, Gabriele Schranz, published by Linde Verlag, Reprints by friendly permission of the publisher.





Body language: treacherous gestures

// By Dr. Gabriele Cerwinka, Gabriele Schranz





If the soliloquy of the interlocutor is too long, we like to start tapping nervously with our fingers on the table. A clear stop signal that betrays our true thoughts. But actually we do not want to look in the cards ...





Just want to run away


The drumming on the table is like saying, "If you do not stop talking soon, I'll jump up and run away." Running away like this very often determines our body language.

If a negotiating partner with a calm, upright upper body and a confident facial expression is sitting at the negotiating table, he gives the impression that he is the master of the situation.





When the restlessness rises imperceptibly in us


But suddenly the feet are almost imperceptibly restless. Again and again they move back and forth. Even though this unrest is not yet reflected in the upper body, it is an infallible sign that the matter is slowly becoming delicate.

He wants to flee, but must suppress this impulse and thus hide the other's true feelings.





When feelings are a disadvantage


It has become very important in our world in many situations not to show our true feelings, to preserve the appearance.

It would not be very beneficial for us if the boss noticed what we actually think of him. Or if the customer noticed that he was just about to finally buy the annoying shop keeper.





Treacherous body language


In any kind of negotiation, it is crucial for success not to let others look into the cards. Therefore, we try to hide our feelings as much as possible.

Many have recognized that it is just the body language that she keeps betraying. Therefore one is very concerned about a conscious use of the body language. Body language trainees are very popular not only among politicians and television supporters.





Remove the ground contact


To avoid a constant unwanted movement of the legs, we like to beat one leg over the other. Although we have immobilized the feet, but at the same time also partially lost the contact with the ground.

Only those who are firmly on the ground with both legs have a firm "point of view" - it has a convincing effect. If he has hit one leg over the other, there is a high risk that the "air leg" starts to move up and down restlessly.





Who will flee, who will attack?


If the tip of the foot is also directed towards the partner, the latter feels an unconscious threat. The foot step can be done at any time.

Any form of hectic and driving movements affects a conversation as an atmospheric disturbance. The conversation partner loses the thread rather, the attention is distracted from the subject matter, the hidden fight begins. Who will flee, who will attack?





When the hands contradict the words


In contrast to the words, we are less able to lie with our hands. The language of the hands is more immediate and thus much more genuine. But sometimes the gesture with the hands can also act as a weapon.

For example, who leans back in his chair and puts his hands outstretched, as if he wants to push something away, but emphasizes that he fully agrees with the matter, he lies - with his words! The hands, on the other hand, tell the truth, and with it the opposite: this is far from over, I prefer to push that far away from me.





The power of primitive times


Let's stretch out our hands or while sitting our legs, we push something of us, get our distance, enlarge our territory. The other understands the threat: "Do not get too close to me, keep your distance!"

Before our primeval ancestors learned to use tools as tools and as weapons, they only had their bodies at their disposal, as the animal world does today.





Hand for self defense


The hand is very suitable as a weapon: you can bang it into a fist, hit the edge of the tense hand like a hatchet or drill your fingers into the opponent's eyes.

Granted, not too civilized ideas. Today we prefer to fight with remote-controlled rockets in case of emergency. Or in everyday working life with words.





Threaten with the fist


Sometimes, however, our hands fall into primordial patterns of behavior. Our sense of anger is then expressed directly by a clenched fist and not by an imaginary pressure on a rocket launch button!

Rarely do we keep the "opponent" this fist right under the nose - this gesture would be too clear. We prefer to hide them under the table, behind our backs or brake the indicated punch through the other hand.

Only in the extreme emergency does the fist slap down on the table. We do not threaten our desk, but the negotiating partner!





The karate hand


Anyone who often argues with the outstretched hand edge, the typical "karate hand", clearly means:

"Do not play with me, I'm ready to strike at any time and quite capable of shattering entire brick walls!"





Drill holes in the mind with the raised index finger


Even the raised index finger represents a clear threatening gesture. If I do not aim directly at the eyes of my opponent, I would at least want to drill holes in his rigid opinion.

Anyone who constantly points with his index finger and palms down to a place in a written document, acts like a sword defender, who practices threatening with his sword: "If you do not do what I want, I sting!"





elbow tactics


The slightly raised and forward elbows are also understood as a subliminal threat. It is not without reason that one often speaks of "ellbow tactics".

I get more space through the raised elbows, pushing all opponents seemingly far from me.





cross arms


The charm that makes my arms cross, but can also be quite different in nature: when we freeze, we make exactly the same gesture.

Another time we are just tired of long standing, looking for new support and relaxation by changing our position.





Signs of relaxation


With his arms crossed, he simply lets himself be relaxed and pleasant-I signal the other:

"I take back at the moment, I'll let you speak, I just listen!" So many can interpret one and the same gesture. The true background is always clear from the overall context.

Text comes from: Die Macht der versteckten Signale: Wortwahl - Körpersprache - Emotionen. Nonverbale Widerstände erkennen und überwinden (2014) from Dr. Gabriele Cerwinka, Gabriele Schranz, published by Linde Verlag, Reprints by friendly permission of the publisher.





With the power of voice to success: 30 seconds elevator pitch

// By Gottfried Hoffmann





"And what are you doing?" - "I, um, am working as um, ..." Yes, and that's it. You could not convince this interesting person of your special idea and your good work. Too bad, because with a bit of preparation, you could have shined here.





Voice training for quick persuasion


Because the exercise of the elevator pitch can help. On an elevator ride to the eleventh floor, you inform your counterparty about yourself and your activities and make him curious.

You have probably already arranged for a talk at the Dingdong of the elevator door for today.





The ultimate lift ride


The Elevator Pitch, this compact information in thirty seconds, is all about the essentials. You will not be able to accommodate details here, they are reserved for a later discussion. This is just a matter of attracting interest, creating a good mood and establishing a first contact.

If your counterpart is interested in your subject at all, you can now feel it and then take further steps. It can therefore depend very much on a thirty-second sequence. That is why I would like to work with you to create a short presentation of your person and your goals.





Answer in writing


Who am I?

What can I?

How do I earn my money?

For which company did I work and / or work?

What does it stand for?

What makes me or my service special?

What problems do I solve?





Clear, concise, understandable


Now file your text until every word sits and every superfluous word is eliminated. And this goes like this:

They formulate clearly and concisely and, above all, easily understandable.

They use as little jargon as possible and no titles.

They speak authentic, use images wherever possible, and create emotions for their counterparts.

In the end, you offer a benefit to your conversation partner, something that helps him to get better in the future.

And you end up with a way to call for action or a question.





Practice creates masters


When you have done that, train your text. Set a timer to thirty seconds and speak your text. Is that still too long? Then cut short. And talk again. Imagine your partner, look at him, look him in the eyes of the important words.

If you have done it several times in the given time, you are also looking for real practice objects such as friends, relatives, acquaintances. Or make a small parlor game at the next party.





Your facts with easy hand


Achieved by being able to deal with all the facts that concern your person as playfully and virtuoso as with the facts of your professional environment or your hobby. So you speak as fluently about yourself as about other topics.

And you will listen to your voice. The security in the matter, the choice of words, the routine, all these factors make sure that you are safe for yourself and with it your voice will reflect exactly this. So that you finally - with all modesty - make it clear to your counterpart, who you are and what you can do.





Overview


In the Elevator Pitch, you will present yourself, your activity and your ideas in thirty seconds. The facts are possibly linked with emotional and presented in simple language. A benefit should be visible to the call partner.

Decisive are preparation and practice. Because only when you are absolutely sure and can deal with your speech with agility, your voice will sound powerful and sonorous. And only then do you have a chance to win over your counterpart.

And now let's take a look at the situation at the beginning of this text: "And what are you doing?" Now you are prepared, you can start, you are relaxed and your voice transports what you want to express.

Text comes from: DIE STIMME MACHT‘S: Überzeugend, wirkungsvoll, authentisch sprechen (2014) from Gottfried Hoffmann, published by BusinessVillage Verlag, Reprints by friendly permission of the publisher.





Misunderstandings of body language: 5 tips against misinterpretation of communication

// By Simone Janson





Body language is an important but often underrated part of our communication. And he offers many possibilities for misunderstandings. 5 tips on what to do about it.





Misunderstandings in communication through body language - that is how they arise


Recently at a business meeting: My long-term cooperation partner accompanied me after a very cordial conversation to the station and spread out her arms. Now that I have lived in Italy for some time, I am basically open to embrace and return the hug without much thought.

She was probably a little surprised, but just as happy as she had been before - actually, she had only wanted to stop the door behind me. And that is just one example of misunderstandings in body language that can happen more frequently in everyday life.





Misinterpretations of nonverbal communication can have major disadvantages


But even in verbal communication there is infinite room for misunderstandings of every kind, one can assume that the rate for misinterpretations in nonverbal communication is much higher. And not always the result is as positive as in this case, in which it became a common, confidence-inspiring grin story.

Because the body language as well as our reaction in the respective context can decisively influence the course of a conversation or even a professional negotiation - positive as well as negative. Because the way we communicate non-verbally unconsciously reflects our opinions, feelings and stress aspects, things that we do not want our counterpart to know.





5 typical body language signals with misunderstanding potential


But what should be taken into account so that one correctly interprets body language in a professional context in order to avoid misinterpretations? Here is an overview of the most important signals with misunderstanding potential:





1. Smile - HOW does it matter


Smile is generally considered a positive signal. How often this is misunderstood, however, is always made clear to me when I walk around happily because I think about something positive - and people suddenly react to me just as positively positive because they think I'm smiling at them in greeting, even if that was not intended.

Even toddlers learn from their parents that they create a positive reaction in their environment by pulling up the corners of the mouth. But there is also the typical winner smile, in which you deliberately show your counterparts' teeth and threatens so openly. The lips are only so wide open that you can see the teeth well. Our consciousness wants to persuade us that we are met here in a friendly and open manner, but our subconscious mind also registers the threatening gesture behind it, an act of open aggression that can also lead to arguments.

There is also the far more harmless-looking, obliging smile. Although the corners of the mouth pull up, but otherwise no muscle in the face, even the eyes remain completely uninvolved. Sometimes it is accompanied by a slight nod. This smile seems somehow cramped, the binding gesture only pretended - hidden behind indifference and indifference, in which the other is fed as uninteresting with a smile. You can see how fundamentally misunderstood a simple greeting gesture can be interpreted.





2. Crossed arms mean defense - right?


The same applies to arms crossed in front of the chest. Also this gesture holds a lot of potential for misunderstandings. Recently, I found myself trying to cross my arms because I did not know what to do with them standing up - and then spontaneously looked for an alternative.

Basically one should say goodbye to the widespread opinion that certain movements have a clearly interpretable meaning. The folding or entanglement of the poor is often interpreted as a form of aggression or opposition. However, there are times when the arms are folded because the space or location is cold. The folding of the arms can also prevent fidgeting in cases of boredom.

For some people, folding the arms is simply a comfortable and familiar position. Maybe when I cross my arms, I signal my readiness to defend myself, maybe I'll just free myself or I'm tired and support myself with my arms. Maybe it's all these things at the same time. But one should keep in mind, as I did in my conversation, that this gesture may be interpreted negatively. Angela Merkel's often ridiculed rhombic gesture has its meaning.





3. Micro-expressions that reveal the true feeling


While most of us have usually learned as adults at the latest to have their facial expressions under control, it sometimes reveals particularly strong emotions, in so-called micro-expressions,

These are sudden, very short derailments of the face in which the true emotions break through the seemingly impenetrable mask. They usually only appear when people try to hide a very strong feeling that is in contradiction to what we want to show outward.

A good example of this are raised eyebrows. These are also often interpreted very misleading, z. As a form of disbelief or mockery. If someone raises their eyebrows, it can also be unbelief or misunderstanding. However, raising eyebrows can also mean that someone is impressed, tries to understand a situation better, or just wants to end a conversation unobtrusively.





4. To stand by yourself and others


We all know this situation in which someone starts a conversation, but we can not devote full attention to it for a variety of reasons. This is also reflected in our body language: For example, by not turning completely to the person speaking to you. This causes irritation, restraint, disrespect and more. It is better to give your full attention to the matter that should take precedence. If you are too busy for a conversation, explain it. However, if you want to devote yourself completely to the conversation, turn completely to your conversation partner.

However, it is just as important to be completely in agreement with one's own opinion in a conversation: Because one often assumes the attitude of one's conversation partner, mirror neurons give their regards. It can be a mark for turning your toe towards your opponent. That too is misleading, because the twisting of the foot can also mean other things. For example, that one would prefer to have the conversation sitting down or vice versa. After all, it might just be a matter of taking a comfortable stance.





5. Restless looks - are they really nervous?


Even restless looks can be completely misinterpreted. When someone is constantly looking nervously from one side to the other, this is most obviously understood as a representation of concern or distress.

However, restless sidelights or twitching eyes can also mean something completely different, such as the desire to lead the conversation elsewhere. It could also mean that the person is trying to turn the conversation in a different direction and accidentally flutter his eyes while his brain is already busy with other issues.





Conclusion: body language signals intention, but no specific meaning


In general, body language signals a basic intention, but not a specific meaning. And not every gesture is clearly assigned to a specific, firmly defined expression. Gestures are therefore ambiguous and should be interpreted that way. On the other hand, what body language conveys quite well is a person's emotional intention.

In fact, brain research shows that what we feel first appears in our bodies and only a nanosecond later in our consciousness. So if we are hungry, impatient, angry or happy, our body will signal these feelings quite reliably. And that's exactly what you can learn to read and understand. Until the conscious mind realizes this anger or pleasure, it has already manifested itself in our body. And that's what, man learn to read and understand.

But often this happens unconsciously, without thinking too much about it. We have mirror neurons in our brains that become active when our subconscious senses something in everyone else. We reflect the emotions of this other person so that we can understand them better. From an evolutionary point of view, this also makes sense, because we can respond so quickly and automatically to the feelings of others.





Body language communication and power: men vs. women

// By Dr. Cornelia Topf





Body language has more influence on our competent effect than many are fond of. And in the struggle for power, men and women unfortunately play different rules.





Men make career, women family?


Women still have a hard time in the male world we live in. Men make a career, women make family, says a bad spell. A look at the statistics confirms this sentence.

Women do not even take 5 percent of the top positions in the economy.

When three women and one man apply for a job, in many cases, paradoxically, the man is taken.

With equal qualification of applicants, the man is preferably promoted.

In meetings, men's suggestions are heard and followed more often.

When there are team debates, one usually agrees on a colleague's suggestion.

If a man and a woman do the same, the man gets more recognition (and salary) for it.





A question of confidence


Because women have the worse ideas, less afford? No, mostly the opposite. Why then? One of the most common answers to this question: "Because men are pigs." It may be - but what does the man say?

If you ask personnel managers and department heads why they have taken or promoted the man and not the woman, or have turned you into a key account manager or project manager, it is striking to find an answer like: "Ms. Müller is undoubtedly very professional. But I just do not trust her to do this job (job, project, clients ...). "Why not for God's sake? Let's open our eyes.





The woman as a secretary


Imagine two colleagues in the interview, one decided and wide-legged, the other shy and withdrawn. Now listen to your stomach. What does he say? Now imagine, you are the chief purchaser of a mechanical engineering company and you have to choose your account manager for the construction of a special facility. Listen to your stomach. Who chooses from both candidates? The answer is clear. Some seminar participants answer to the question also: "Of course the man - and not his secretary!"

Incidentally, this happens constantly in practice: The woman is automatically regarded as the secretary, assistant or employee of the husband, even if she is equal or even superior! This is not because of how gladly accepted that our society still has not gotten used to the fact that a woman is superior to the man accompanying her. This is due to something quite different: this is not due to a hidden female urge to masochism, but the Tootsie effect.





Women work differently


Women act differently than men because they act differently than men. Cinema hits like "Some like it hot", "A cage full of fools", "Victor-Victoria", "Charly's aunt", "Tootsie" or "Mrs. Doubtfire, the prickly nanny, "grazes this difference.

In the movie, it looks funny when Dustin Hoffmann throws both hands in the air, rolling his eyes and screaming in a high voice: "You old Lüstling!" What is so funny about it? Obviously, the female body language. Of course, this language is grossly oversubscribed in the film. But what's funny in the movie is simply discriminatory in real life.





Women are discriminated against because of their body language


Women are not discriminated against because they are women, but mainly because they speak a different body language. That it is not gender but body language that is to blame, we are amazed to see that even men are discriminated against as and when they adapt female body language. A prime example for those who can still remember is Stan Laurel from "Dick and Doof". He played the doof.

Why stupid? Because his complete body language repertoire was borrowed from female body language. The fat man was much stupider, fell more often, and often got a punch on his nose - but he seemed much more competent, intelligent and strong. Because he spoke a different body language. Just typical man: Falls more often on the nose, but comes on better!





A certificate of approval for our society


Women are discriminated against because they speak the "wrong" body language Of course this is unfair. Of course it is an indictment of any society that it measures a person's competence in how high he speaks, how he crosses his arms, or how tightly he wraps his legs around the chair legs when sitting. If a society is so narrow-minded as to fall for such superficial signals, then its Pisa study, all-day school, can no longer be best served.

But as long as you live in this society, you have only one choice: you accept the stupid rules of the game and win in the game - or you do not play along. But what comes out, you know now only too well. That's why you hold this book in your hands. Because you no longer want to be offside. Because you want to shake off the Tootsie effect. Shake!

Text comes from: Körpersprache für Frauen: Sicher und selbstbewusst auftreten (2012) from Dr. Cornelia Topf, published by Münchener Verlagsgruppe (MVG), Reprints by friendly permission of the publisher.





Knowledge of Managers for Managers Managers and Sellers: Others convince and inspire

// By Frank Scheelen





Anyone who wants to inspire others while leading or selling must first know each other better. Only those who know and change their own perspective can convince others.





Expand your horizons


Do you know this type of drawing, which likes to be passed around in social networks, where you can recognize two very different motives? The interesting thing is that many of these illustrations allow two perspectives. For example, you can see the distinctive profile of an Indian. Or you can see the back of a plump figure in the cloak throwing a dark shadow against the wall.

Suppose two viewers perceive the different fi gures of this image without knowing that both perspectives are possible. They would argue endlessly. They would not stop until someone told them they were both right. You can actually look at the same picture and see something very different. The same applies in the examples: sellers and buyers have had a different picture of their respective interlocutor due to their different perspectives.





Leadership and Sales: Success depends on your own perception


It depends on our personal perception which side of an image or a human we see first. Our personality, the influences from our past, our previous conditioning decide which of the two images we perceive first.

We do not see the world as it is, but as we are.

If we manage to break away from our usual perception, we suddenly see the same thing with different eyes. As in this picture: If you first saw the Indian, it will be difficult for you to make out the contours of the figure in the coat. But once these have formed into a shape, you no longer see the profile. Or in a sales talk: If the seller had broken away from his usual perspective, he would have recognized that the customer only wanted to lead an earnings-driven sales talk.





Change the perspective: an eye-opening moment


The customer had nothing against him personally, he just wanted to keep the reins in his hand. What one of them meant to be efficient and direct came across the other harshly and aggressively. With such misunderstandings a number of potential customers go through the "rag". If you change the perspective, that's over. You will win over customers you have preferred to avoid because you did not get along with their style.

The famous aha effect, when perception "swits", is the crucial moment. At this moment, we are getting out of our usual frame of reference and gaining a different view of the world. Of course this is not always as easy as with this drawing. When it comes to beliefs, yearlong convictions, deep-rooted experiences, our innermost mind refuses to accept a new view. This requires a good deal of self-knowledge and the knowledge of why we see certain things as we see them before we can get rid of them. We must learn to set down the spectacles through which we see the world, and set up another, or even many others. But why should you do that and get out of old habits?





A small change with big consequences


The fact is that often a small change is enough to make a big difference. Think of horse racing! The winner often only has a nose-length lead over the runner-up. Or at the 100 meter run. Why are the runners panning over the home stretch with their upper body outstretched? Because they want to achieve a minimal advantage that makes the big difference. Afterwards nobody asks anymore, how many centimeters or hundredths of a second the distance between first and second places was. Afterwards you only know what the world champion or Olympic champion is called.

So you may need to change little about your behavior to be among the best. Follow the "winning edge principle": a small lead causes victory. Maybe your competitor's product is just as good, the service just as efficient, and there's no difference in price. But the small edge may be that you get along with your client better, because he feels understood by you. And that's why he buys from you.





Small tips with a decisive effect


Maybe you do not have to change that much about your behavior. It may be enough if you follow a few simple tips and strategies to make a difference in your relationships with customers or employees. Your results are likely to improve significantly as you engage with the people you have had difficulties with, and who will inspire and convince you with the method you will get to know here.

It's hard to emphasize just how important a personal relationship is, without which it would not be possible to impress the customer. Hans Christian Altmann cites research by Rolf Berth in his bestseller "Customers only buy from winners"

that "emotional enthusiasm" is crucial to sales success;

that only 33 percent of deals in the industry and only 21 percent in consumption were due to reasonable and rational argu ments;

however, that 66 percent of all deals in the industry and 78 percent in consumption, because the seller was able to inspire and fascinate the customer.



The crucial question is therefore: How do you delight your customers?





That's how you inspire others


What excites you? Surely you are very pleased when your interlocutor gets involved in your way of conducting conversations. Suppose you are the following type of customer: you want to see results, do not waste time chatting and be competently and clearly informed. Most of all, you would have to deal with a salesman who responds to your needs: leaving his own person in the background, suggesting good solutions to you, and not being offended if you do not make a friendly face. In short, when he realizes what kind of a guy you are and adjusts to it. Somehow you expect that from him too, because after all he wants to sell you something.

You can inspire, if you know what your customer is excited about, what kind reaches him and appeals to him. For that you have to be able to assess what kind of a guy he is. And you have to know your own type. Then you know your impact on others and you know what you need to do differently to address that type of customer.

Text comes from: Menschenkenntnis auf einen Blick: Sich selbst und andere besser verstehen (2014) from Frank Scheelen, published by Münchener Verlagsgruppe (MVG), Reprints by friendly permission of the publisher.





Understanding and guiding people: The effect of nonverbal

// By Joe Navarro





Many people think it's more about the content than the presentation. That's a big mistake. The nonverbal effect is at least as crucial.





The power of action: The eye eats with it


You have arranged appointments with two different financial advisors to discuss the best investment strategy for your hard earned savings. Upon entering the first office building, you notice that the shrubs at the entrance must be truncated urgently and fingerprints on the revolving doors.

At the reception desk the responsible security guard pushes you to the visitors list. You know the procedure: you log in, present your ID card and wait while a call is made to the upper floor. Following this, the post will let you know where the elevators are with a casual wave.





The occurrence counts


Once at the top, you'll find a receptionist who's busy operating a hectic flashing system telephone. Between the calls you name your name and your concern. She points to a chair on which you sit. Then you start leafing through the magazines that are there on the table.

You wait ten minutes and just want to ask if you can use the toilet as your potential adviser enters the scene. His rolled-up sleeves and loosely tied tie suggest that the morning was already hectic for him. After hastily shaking your hand, follow him to his office.

The telephone is already ringing there. He picks up the phone as he gestures for you to sit down. They sit down and try to stray away while the adviser is on the phone. Finally, he hangs up and your conversation begins.





The power of the beautiful light


The second appointment looks like this: The windows on the building are sparkling. The facade is freshly painted, the green area perfectly maintained. At the reception desk, you are benevolently aware that you are already expected: your name is on the visitor list. A quick look at your identity card, and it's up to the elevator.

The waiting room lady is on the phone as you approach her. She ends the conversation, hangs up, gives you a friendly look, and greets you with a good morning. How can I help you?". You name your name and your concern. She asks you to sit down while informing the adviser of your arrival. They sit and browse a little in the company brochures that are on the table.

It takes less than five minutes until your contact comes and buttons his jacket as he approaches. He greets you with a friendly smile and a firm handshake before you go to his office together. There are a few chairs and your adviser gives you a choice of where you want to sit. You'll be surprised to discover that your favorite beverage is already waiting for you. As you suddenly remember: You recently received a call confirming the appointment and asking you what you like to drink. They both take their seats and start the meeting.





Checklist non-verbal signals


Surely you can now think of what I'm aiming for: Assuming that all other circumstances are more or less the same, who would you rather trust your money with? What may not be obvious at first glance is that in both scenarios, almost all the crucial elements are non-verbal:

the appearance of the building complex

the efficiency and courtesy of the security staff

whether you speak or gesticulate with you

whether the antechamber pays full attention to you (time, eye contact and greeting)

the type of reading material that is available

the waiting time

the care that your interlocutor devotes to his appearance

the first encounter with your contact person and their handshake

Interest in your well-being (seating, drinks, meals)

the fact that you pay more attention than an incoming phone call





Lightning estimates - quick decisions with far-reaching consequences


Perhaps you think that such things only serve the superficial, beautiful appearance. But briefly recall the reasons that usually lead to a business relationship. Often, it's the small disparaging details - unrequited calls, unanswered eMails, constant delays, the uncomfortable feeling that the contact person is either in a hurry, disorganized, or favoring other clients - that is our goodwill or that vital in economic contexts Undermine trust and put an end to the originally positive relationship.

Often we are not aware of how frustrating a relationship has become - until one day contracts have to be renewed, prices rise, a competitor makes a tempting offer, or a mistake caused by carelessness has costly consequences and overcomes the shortage.





This is how we filter and evaluate impressions


We humans are born with a large, adaptable and eager brain. Since we have serious defects in our physical appearance (for example, we have neither a shell nor claws, beaks, wings or fangs, and we are not particularly fast), we had to rely on our mental flexibility to survive: ours Ability to assess situations quickly and to react decisively on the basis of the incoming sensory impressions, to learn from experiences and to remember what we have learned.

We're going through the world with radar turned on, with our senses picking up a steady stream of impressions that we're constantly evaluating. We consciously receive and evaluate many impressions: we take note of someone whom we find attractive, and approach this person for a closer look. We smell freshly baked chocolate biscuits and feel the urge to taste them. We hear our supervisor call our name and approach him to find out how this happened.





That's what science says


We receive and evaluate other impressions without thinking consciously: We see a car racing and jump out of the danger zone. We step back as soon as someone gets too close. We avoid people whose behavior or appearance does not seem to conform to the norm. In short, based on a surprisingly small amount of information, we are constantly making decisions - and in a surprisingly short time. That's what I mean by the term "lightning assessment."

The scientific approach to this topic began in the 1990 years, when studies showed that we were able to make very accurate judgments about the personality of people within a very short time, which often sufficed for a photograph that suited the subject for a few seconds (or even shorter).





The power of unconscious decision


It has been found that much of our decisions - from the friends we surround ourselves to the way we invest our money - are made on the basis of unconscious whisperings from a very old age of our consciousness that is not deliberately accessible to us.

This awareness is constantly active and circumvents our logical mind, it works in the background, but still dominates our perceptions. Lightning assessments often provide astonishingly precise insights into our fellow human beings: how they affect us, their trustworthiness and their feelings towards us. Most of the data we base ourselves on in those millisecond yet sustainable reviews is non-verbal.
