Praise for A Mind for Sales



“More is not the answer. Better is. In A Mind for Sales, you’ll discover numerous practical strategies you can use to be at the top of your game, succeeding beyond what you thought possible.”

—JILL KONRATH, speaker and author of More Sales, Less Time and SNAP Selling



“What a refreshingly substantial piece of work. As Mark has highlighted, attitude is fundamental to sales success: with the right attitude, frontline sales professionals are more likely to embrace the skills they must have, implement the processes they need to retain control, and of course, continually expand their commercial bandwidth by increasing their knowledge. I like very much that he also highlights the fact that technology is not a panacea. It certainly is not arresting the alarming year-on-year decline in sales achievement levels—but absorption and implementation of Mark’s philosophies just might!”

—JONATHAN FARRINGTON, CEO of JF Initiatives; Top Sales World, Top Sales Magazine



“Everyone is in sales, but most people struggle with knowing what to do. This book is the answer! Mark shows everyone how to be better at promoting and influencing our products and services with systems and processes that work.”

—MARY C. KELLY, Commander, US Navy (ret.) and CEO, Productive Leaders



“Mark Hunter has written a genius book that cuts right to the core of what makes the top 1 percent successful in sales—you, the sales professional, are the biggest factor. You are more important than all the technology in the world, and A Mind for Sales delivers tight, practical medicine for leveraging your greatest asset—your mind—to not only sell more but to enjoy life while you’re doing it. Every sales professional should read this book!”

—JAMES MUIR, CEO Best Practice International and author of The Perfect Close



“Everyone knows that mindset is the most important factor in sales, but rarely do you find an expert and a book that can show you how to build and strengthen yours. Mark Hunter has written a truly unique and powerful sales book that goes beyond traditional skills and gives you the sales strategies you need to take your team to the next level.”

—MERIDITH ELLIOTT POWELL, President, MotionFirst



“A Mind for Sales addresses all of the things you need to remember and execute to stay on top of your game. It is a must read for both people new to sales and veterans who are looking to stay relevant to their customers. If you want to see an immediate boost in your sales revenues, A Mind for Sales is your ticket. To top it off, it is written by one of the top sales thought leaders in the world—Mark Hunter.”

—RON KARR, author of Lead, Sell, or Get Out of the Way



“Chapter 9 tells you why you should read this book: ‘Be the Difference-Maker Others Will Value.’ When you do that, your world will change. The world needs problem solvers, difference-makers, and proactive people who create opportunities. This book will make you that kind of person.”

—JIM CATHCART, author of The Power Minute and founder of Cathcart.com



“The genius of Mark Hunter’s Mind for Sales is that it recognizes that excelling at sales isn’t about mastering the latest CRM tool, getting a more productive lead pipeline, or even perfecting your sales pitch. While those things definitely help, the most important thing is having the right mindset. If you’re a serious salesperson, you’ve probably already spent lots of time working on those other tools. Now it’s time to get your mind right. This book will help you do it.”

—PAUL SMITH, author of Sell with a Story and The 10 Stories Great Leaders Tell



“A Mind for Sales is about being real, relatable, and relevant . . . success in sales starts by looking inward. Mark hits this head-on as sales is a lifestyle. Sales professionals are leaders. With a servant mindset, Mark leads you down the path to sales prosperity as you develop your mind for sales.”

—LARRY LEVINE, author of Selling from the Heart





© 2020 Mark Hunter

All rights reserved. No portion of this book may be reproduced, stored in a retrieval system, or transmitted in any form or by any means—electronic, mechanical, photocopy, recording, scanning, or other—except for brief quotations in critical reviews or articles, without the prior written permission of the publisher.

Published by HarperCollins Leadership, an imprint of HarperCollins Focus LLC.

Book design by Aubrey Khan, Neuwirth & Associates.

ISBN 978-1-4002-1576-8 (eBook)

ISBN 978-1-4002-1567-6 (HC)

Epub Edition January 2020 9781400215768

Library of Congress Control Number: 2019948561

Printed in the United States of America

20 21 22 23 LSC 10 9 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1





Dedicated to the greatest family a

husband and father could ever ask for.



Ann Marie, Chris, Michelle, Sarah,

Andrew, Eli, Caleb, Amy and Jonathan





CONTENTS

Cover

Title Page

Copyright



Foreword by Anthony Iannarino

Acknowledgments

Introduction: I Should Not Be Here

SECTION I: Your Mind Drives Your Success 1Mondays Are for Selling

2Your Monday Mission

3It Is All About You

4Sales Is Leadership. Leadership Is Sales.

5Sales Is Not Your Job. Sales Is Your Lifestyle.

6Annual Goals Are Just the Starting Point

7Sales Is Not Customer Service. Do Not Confuse the Two.

8Sell First and Negotiate Second

9Be the Difference-Maker Others Will Value

10Being Passionate About Sales Is What Your Customers Expect





SECTION II: Your Greatest Assets 11Your Three Greatest Assets: Your Time, Your Mind, Your Network

12Protecting Your Time—Discipline Is a Virtue

13Building Your Mind

14Your Network Is Your Best Investment

15Sales Is Not a Solo Activity. It’s a Team Sport.





SECTION III: Minefields and Mind Traps 16Apps and Hacks Don’t Control You. You Control Them.

17Social Selling Is Neither Social Nor Selling

18What Your CRM Is Not Telling You

19Quit Thinking Marketing Will Get You Leads

20Sales Is Not a Numbers Game. Sales Is a Quality Game.

21Your Pipeline Needs To Be a Water Faucet, Not a Sewer Pipe





SECTION IV: Don’t Let Your Customers Control Your Mind 22Speed Sells. Simplify the Process.

23Asking the Tough Questions

24The Value of Hearing “No”

25Not All Prospects and Customers Are the Same





SECTION V: The Future of Sales 26You Do Not Close a Sale. You Begin a Relationship.

27Next-Gen Sales

28Do You Have a Mind for Sales?





About the Author

Index





FOREWORD

THE MOST VALUABLE real estate you will ever own is the six inches between your ears. The truth for most people is that those six inches containing the crinkly, pinkish-gray matter oftentimes owns them. Over time, your mind picks up all kinds of infections, like negative beliefs and disempowering ideas, all the while rationalizing a set of excuses that prevents you from becoming your best-ever self. When you work in a role that requires that you do hard things and where you are greeted with a “no” more frequently than any other role in business, your mindset is the critical factor to your success. Your mindset is also, potentially, your greatest asset.

In my first book, I wrote a math equation for success in sales. Here is the equation I scribbled: Mindset + Skill Sets + Tool Kits = sales success. A reader tweeted me that my math was bad. He suggested that the real equation is (Skill Sets + Tool Kits) × Mindset = sales success. The reader was right; mindset isn’t additive. Your mindset is a multiplier. A Mind for Sales is also a multiplier, providing you with a set of recipes for creating and sustaining an indomitable mindset, the kind necessary if you are going to succeed in sales.

Here is why you should read this book and take action. Over the last decade and a half, the chattering class in sales development have placed too much of an emphasis on increasing sales by using the new sales tools. While you need tools (it is part of the equation above), they provide efficiency—not effectiveness. No single tool in your sales stack is going to motivate you to do good work, nor will it create a client preference to work with you instead of your competitor. In the world we now occupy, you are the value proposition and the compelling, differentiated value your dream client is deciding to add to their team, and no technology can substitute for who you are.

During the same period that technology has attracted a lot of attention and captured a lot of salespeople’s time and attention, there have also been “experts” who have suggested that relationships are no longer important in sales, an idea I can’t imagine being possible outside of transactional sales. In a human endeavor in which you help people make changes and leave their current state for a better future state, how can sales not be about people? Sales is an other-oriented endeavor, not the smarmy, selfish selling of fifty years ago. Hunter (those of us who know and love him call him “Hunter”) opposes this idea, believing it misses the point of what the best salespeople do: they are not only known, liked, and trusted, but they also create real value for their clients.

Throughout this book that you hold in your hands, you will find another foundational set of beliefs that lead to greater success in sales. Those beliefs are about who you are and less about what you do. Selling effectively requires integrity, and those who don’t possess it don’t last long. You are going to be encouraged to build your approach on helping your clients achieve better results—including results they didn’t know were possible for them.

If you want a sales stack for greater effectiveness, you can’t do any better than a foundation of powerful beliefs, beliefs Hunter provides—along with strong direction as to how to act on them.

When I read this book, it wasn’t what I expected. But after I finished it, A Mind for Sales is exactly the book I should have expected from my friend, Mark Hunter. As I reflected back on the many times we have spoken on the same platform, I realized I have never seen him speak to an audience without a focus on mindset. As he writes here, “Sales is leadership and leadership is sales.” The statement is not only true, it’s also a good jumping off point here, as your mindset is a matter of your personal leadership. Here you will find the practical and tactical strategies necessary to build a mind for sales.

I can’t possibly end my thoughts on the importance of this book without mentioning Mondays. A good portion of the first part of this book is about being productive by planning, starting your Monday on Sunday, and preparing to get early wins at the start of the week. Starting your week with this kind of mindset will transform you—and it will transform your results.

—Anthony Iannarino Author of Eat Their Lunch: Winning Customers Away from Your Competition





ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS

If not for the contributions of many, there is little chance this book would have ever come together. Writing a book is like going on an uncharted journey to a destination you want to reach but are unsure of how to get there. Each day on the journey, there are unexpected encounters, unplanned delays, and yes, amazing experiences. This sums up what writing a book is like: you have a message you want to share and a goal you want to reach, but each paragraph written is a new experience to be explored and examined closely.

The number of people who have helped me with this book is overwhelming and I want to start by calling out the team at HarperCollins Leadership. It is an honor to work with each of you and in particular, Tim Burgard. From our first meeting in your NYC office to the countless number of emails we’ve exchanged, I cannot say thank you enough for your guidance and support.

The second person I want to thank is Ann Stritt. Ann joined my team and within weeks was thrust into the daunting task of helping gather information, edit and re-edit this book. Along the way, she still managed to juggle every other business task and take care of her kids at home. Thank you, Ann, for your hard work and dedication to this project.

We become like those who we spend time with, and the number of sales experts I get to interact with is, without a doubt, a huge benefit. Years ago, I began sharing sales and business ideas with three individuals. Trust me when I say the sharing of ideas never ends. Anthony Iannarino, Mike Weinberg, and Jeb Blount, you three are brilliant, and it is a pleasure to dance with each of you.

To my agent, Charlotte Raybourn, you have helped me immensely. Thank you for your calm and patient demeanor. You keep me out of trouble more often than you realize. Your ability to create a plan and execute it is what makes you the best in the industry. Sam Richter, thank you for your patience as a business partner. You keep bringing creative ideas to life and your tenacity for never stopping is contagious. Maybe now that this book is written, I can spend more time with you and the business.

Sales is a lifestyle I enjoy, and yes, you can say I am passionate about it. Sales allows me to spend each day influencing people. I cannot say thank you enough to the thousands of people reading my online content, watching my videos, and sitting in the audience of my presentations. I am blessed to have so many people who value my ideas. It is humbling, to say the least. I hope I do not just meet your expectations but exceed them. If you know me, you know my faith is very important to me. My prayer each day is for the Lord to give me the strength, wisdom, and patience to do what I do. Without my faith, there is little doubt I would be able to achieve everything I have, including writing this book.

Finally, a very special thanks to my family. Many years ago, a woman I loved agreed to be my wife. Thank you, Ann Marie. I love you more today than when we were first married. Your support, not only in the business but in raising our kids and keeping things calm, is far more than I could have ever asked for. To our children, Chris and Michelle, and to their spouses and even to their kids, thanks for putting up with me.





INTRODUCTION

I Should Not Be Here





WHEN YOU HEAR about somebody known as “The Sales Hunter” and realize they have gone as far as trademarking the name, you are likely thinking two things: First, this guy really loves to sell and, second, I wonder what his last name was before he changed it to Hunter? I hate to pop your bubble, but Hunter is my real last name. Thank you, Mom and Dad! And now you are thinking, the name Hunter is the reason why I am in sales. Clearly, I must love to prospect and hunt for customers. Nope! A career in sales was not the profession I wanted to go into. My dream job was advertising, actually. I went to college and took every course I could in advertising and marketing. Upon graduating, I intended to set out on my mission to make Madison Avenue my home.

How close did I get to achieving my dream job? Best I can say is, I had the dream but was never successful with the job. My career plans changed toward the end of my senior year in college. It was not my grades and it was not some amazing internship that altered my path. The change was due to my connection with the Seattle Police Department. These pieces do fit together—let me explain. You see, the Seattle Police Department had a habit of collecting my signature on these small forms. And while signing these papers, we would have conversations. You guessed it, I got my share of tickets (four in total) over the course of about eight weeks. No need to worry, I promise nobody was harmed. It was simply my habit of ignoring speed limits and other regulations that I did not think applied to me.

When you are in college you tend to not worry about your actions, and this is the approach I took with the tickets. I paid them and forgot about them. But the problem was, my insurance company did not forget so quickly. A few months later, I received a letter in the mail, a personal invite of sorts. It was a special offer from my insurance company notifying me I would be in their high-risk pool. My new insurance premium would now be more than the value of the car I was driving.

At this point, being a smart college graduate, I knew what I had to do. I could find a better job, paying double what I was making, or I could find a job that would supply me with a car. It did not take me long to realize finding a job that paid double what I was making was not going to happen. With that option off the table, I came up with the idea of getting a job that supplied me with a car. And you guessed it, that meant a sales job.

So, there it is, how Mark Hunter got into sales—not by choice but by chance due to my driving skills and the Seattle Police Department. Ironically, the traffic tickets changed my future and in a positive way. Thanks to those tickets, far more doors opened than would have had I pursued a career writing lousy copy for local furniture stores.

To say I was an immediate success based on my last name being Hunter would be another bad assumption. My first job in sales might have met my goal of giving me four wheels, but that is about it. I lasted in that job just one year before I was fired. Looking back, I deserved to be let go, because I had zero clue what I was doing. With my newfound confidence in what it takes to succeed, and constant need for a car, I found another sales job. I felt certain this second job would work out well. Wow was that another bad assumption! I lasted a grand total of nine months. Yes, I truly was an overnight success—not in sales, just in finding jobs with cars.

My third sales job is where this sales gig finally began to click in my mind. In my first two jobs, I was focused on the free car and money I was earning. I saw customers merely as a tool to help me achieve my goals of making money. Yes, I had a strong case of “commission breath” long before I even knew what it was. But the third time around, I began to see sales as being about the customer. Quickly, the results followed. The more I focused on the customer, the more success I had. I look back and I think, why did it take me so long to come up with what is the most basic idea about sales? My failure early on in sales was purely due to my inability to understand what sales is all about—people. Maybe you caught on more quickly than I did?

In my first two sales jobs, I was focused on me. It was all about making money because that is what I thought I needed to do. What is interesting about that period in my life is, the more I focused on myself—the less comfortable I became. The result was zero confidence. It is what I call the inward spiral of the mind, where we allow our mind to tell us something over and over. Each time we hear it, that voice in our head becomes a little larger until it becomes the only thing we hear. This was the path I was on. Unless my mind shifted, I would soon be without a car due to my inability to keep a job.

The shift from being self-focused to customer-focused did not happen overnight. Honestly, it started out as a pretty dim night-light. In time, the light became brighter and the brighter the more success I had. Sales is not a destination. Sales is truly a journey, and I finally realized this journey was all about helping customers.

Today, sales is my life. It has gone way past being a job. I do not even see sales as a profession anymore; it is a lifestyle and one I am proud to be living. I cannot imagine doing anything else. I am so glad my Toyota Corolla SR5 hatchback encouraged me to speed the streets of Seattle. Without all those speeding tickets, I would not be writing this book. I hope the thoughts and tips that have worked for me on developing a mind for sales add value and success to your own sales journey.





SECTION I


Your Mind Drives Your Success





“It’s not about having the right opportunities.

It’s about handling the opportunities right.”

—MARK HUNTER





CHAPTER 1

Mondays Are for Selling





“Outstanding people have one thing in common: an absolute sense of mission.” —ZIG ZIGLAR





IT IS SUNDAY night, I cannot sleep, and 5:15 a.m. cannot come soon enough. By 6:30, I will have showered, driven forty minutes to work and be at my desk making it happen. I remember those days well. I was working in a very high-stress sales position just outside NYC and loving every minute of the day. I was several years into what was turning out to be a very successful sales career. What began as a nightmare time in sales, had now become a dream—even with multiple cross-country moves. The sales bug bit me hard. I was excited for every telephone call and for the countless sales I would make.

When you are twenty-seven years of age, waking up on your own at 5:15 a.m. is not a normal condition. In conversations with friends, I would mention my Monday morning excitement. They would look at me questioning my sanity, wondering if I either needed medication or should be taking less medication. I do look back on this and laugh, because now I am up at 4:30 a.m. every morning. I am not just loving Monday but every day because of the opportunities that await me. There is no doubt that training a mind for sales starts with how you approach the week.

Mondays are, without a doubt, the most powerful day of the week. In the Western world, Monday is the first working day of the week. You have a choice to make every Monday. How you choose to spend it will become a key indicator for how you will spend the rest of your week. For some people, it is the day to kick things into high gear immediately, while for others it is a day to settle into a slow pace of gearing up.

How do you use Monday? Is it a day to get organized for the week or a day to get a jump on everything? Throughout this book, you will find I call things out and can be blunt. Here comes my first of many blunt statements:




Your desire to use Monday to get organized is an excuse for your lack of desire to engage with customers.




Do not use this lame excuse! Maybe you are even thinking customers do not want to talk to you anyway. If that is the case, then go ahead and take Monday off and let your competition have all your business. The fact is, there are plenty of customers who will talk with you on Monday and, yes, even Monday morning. The Monday malaise is a result of everyone thinking everyone else thinks the same way you do. Just because you might be thinking it is a bad time to reach out to customers, does not mean your customers are thinking the same thing.

Mondays (especially Monday mornings) are a perfect time to reach out to existing customers and make follow-up calls. By reaching out Monday morning, it puts you in the class of people who say, “I care and want to help you sooner rather than later.” For years, I have used Monday morning as a time to follow up with customers, and it is amazing the conversations I have had and the incremental sales I have gained.

Some of you are already upset at me thinking I must not view being organized as important. That is false. I do value being organized. The problem is that too many salespeople overorganize, believing themselves to be busy. Sure, you might be busy. But are you increasing your productivity? Ready for my next blunt comment?




Spending time getting organized is never your most productive task.




The most productive task you can do is to have “Customer-Facing Time.” What is Customer-Facing Time? This is time you spend in conversation with a customer, whether in person, on the telephone, via email, or via text. I am sold on the belief that this metric is one of the most important. Since it is critically important, it only makes sense to be doing it on Monday morning.

Another reason I love making sales calls first thing Monday: it shapes my day and week by getting me off to a good start. We have all had those days where we simply cannot get it into gear. We find ourselves taking up residence in zombieland and, before we know it, the day is gone. I doubt you are getting paid to zone out each day. Unless the name of your employer is Zombies Unlimited, it means you are not delivering the results you get paid to deliver. When I do calls on Monday morning, either following up on a lead or dealing with something for an existing customer, it is amazing how it pumps me up! Sales is about helping people. When I do this on a Monday morning, it motivates me for the rest of the day and the rest of the week.

Do you even know how to make Monday your best day? If your goal for Monday is simply to ignore it or slog your way through, here is what you need to do: Set yourself a couple of easy goals you know you can complete before noon. I love this approach, and yes, I use it regularly as part of my way to turn Monday into a highly productive day. Think about the goals you set. Be careful not to set them so high that you cannot achieve them, because rather than motivate yourself, you will discourage yourself. Conversely, if you set your goals so that you can achieve them with confidence, it is amazing at how much more motivated you will be.

Setting Monday morning goals is so simple it is almost embarrassing. Yet, I am shocked at the feedback I receive when I share this idea. Several years ago, I was speaking at the Marlin Industries national sales meeting. Not only do they use the Monday goal strategy, they even have a special name for it. Monday goal strategies are referred to as “having a pizza goal.” The idea of a “pizza goal” comes from the movie Tommy Boy starring Chris Farley, David Spade, and a host of others. I contend this is one of the best sales movies ever made. There is a scene in the movie where the main character Tommy is trying to convince the wait staff they should prepare chicken wings for him despite the kitchen being closed. If you have seen the movie, I suspect you are laughing with me right now just remembering this scene. Without spoiling the movie for the three of you who have not seen it, Chris Farley’s character was successful in getting his wings. But why? Because Tommy was confident. He knew he could always eat the pizza they had in their car. The moral of this scene is the pizza gave them confidence. For Marlin Industries, they wanted their salespeople to have an easy goal they could nail on Monday to help give them confidence. They knew with confidence they would be far more motivated to have a strong Monday and most likely a highly productive week.

Having a pizza goal for Monday is one reason I believe so strongly in making Monday your best day of the week. When we execute Monday well, it is amazing how much better we execute every other day of the week. If you don’t buy into this, just watch what happens to a baseball team when they get their first couple of batters on base. Or think about the smile that comes to the face of a child who, while learning to walk, successfully takes a few steps. Confidence creates confidence. Motivation creates motivation. Momentum creates momentum, and success creates success.

I call this the Success Wheel. Once you get the wheel moving, momentum takes over and there is no limit to the speed you can achieve.

We all operate within this wheel, but the challenge is, many people fail to realize it. Think about how each one of these supports the others. It is impossible for one not to add more to the other three. For example, when we gain more confidence, we create momentum that in turn fuels motivation resulting in success. Everyone is on the success wheel. Many just do not know it. Those who do recognize this wheel are far more likely to achieve the level of success they choose. Tomorrow morning and every morning from now on, your goal is to be moving your success wheel forward. There will be days when the wheel does not move far, and there will be other days it moves far and fast. Your objective is to keep the wheel moving.





CHAPTER 2

Your Monday Mission





“You are what you repeatedly do. Excellence, then, is not an act, but a habit.” —WILL DURANT





MONDAY DOES NOT start on Monday. How you use your weekend determines how your Monday will go. How your Monday goes will determine how your week goes. I like to say, “Tomorrow begins today.”

Never allow a day to end without knowing what you are going to do tomorrow, especially on a Sunday or Monday. What is your plan to get ready for Monday? This is a question I love asking people. The response is everything from a blank stare to a complicated process. One of the best responses I have ever had is from Chief Client Experience Officer Dana Burkey, at Midwest Laboratories. Her approach is both powerful and simple. She maps her week out on Sunday by making two lists and from them she allocates her time. First, in her executive role, she lists what is important and needs to be worked on immediately. Second, she lists her big ideas for the week. She knows if she is not deliberate about spending time on the big ideas, nothing will happen. Nothing will happen because the immediate needs of the business will take up 100 percent of her time. Her planning and attention to the big ideas is what makes the difference.

We are discussing getting ready for Monday and viewing Sunday and Monday as being nothing but magical, but that is not the case for many people. We need to call out the elephant in the room—stress. For many people, the weekend, especially Sunday night, is stressful knowing another week is about to begin. The reasons vary. I have heard every reason you can think of from the salespeople and business leaders I work with daily. Let me share with you some chilling information about who is the most likely to be stressed out more on the weekend—the people with more education! According to a study of German workers by Wolfgang Maennig, of the University of Hamburg, “People with less education are not as prone to weekend worrying.” Well, that just made me feel good about the education I have obtained. You maybe feel stressed out just reading that statistic.

Regardless of the root cause of our stress, we cannot forget most stress is self-induced, a result of how we choose to respond to what is going on around us. I cannot control my environment and therefore I cannot allow myself to worry about it—doing so is a waste of energy. Our energy needs to be focused on what we can control. Plan your work and work your plan. Have confidence in what you do and keep your eyes on the impact you make on others. Success is not found; success is planned. And it starts with how you plan your week.




You can’t relive last week, so you better make the most of the week ahead.




Your objective is to make Monday awesome, and it starts with the planning you do on Sunday. To help you do that, let me walk you through ten guidelines for tackling your week.




10-STEP GAME PLAN FOR MANAGING YOUR WEEK



Sunday



1.Know exactly what you expect to accomplish, how you will accomplish it, and how what you do fits into your long-term goals. Mondays are not the day to spend time figuring out the week and what to accomplish. If you wait until Monday, it is too late. You cannot afford to waste 20 percent of your week getting ready to sell. Notice I also mentioned the importance of knowing how you will accomplish what you set out to accomplish. This is critical for your long-term goal-setting. You must always keep your quarterly, annual, and yes, even longer-term goals in front of you. If what you are doing does not move you closer to your goals, then you must question why are you doing it.

2.Build your day around your calendar with specific time blocks to complete specific activities. Work will always expand to the amount of time we give it. One way to increase your output is to push it into time blocks. Every ultra-high performer uses this approach. If it works for them, it will work for you. There are two methods I advocate for on a regular basis. The first is to give each task a specific amount of time, which is perfect for people with a few key activities to accomplish. The other method is to divide your day into windows of time and group activities into windows. This works best for the person who has numerous activities each day. Salespeople are more likely to use the second and managers the first. As you build out Monday, do the same for the rest of the week, keeping more open time each day as the week progresses. The reason for this is to allow more time for new items that arise requiring your attention.

3.Schedule three to five calls before 10 a.m. to be proactive in doing what you do best—selling. Your calls might be to an existing customer checking on an order or to a person who just took a new role in his or her company. It might be a follow-up call to a prospect you spoke to last week. The principle here is to get on the phone and get engaged with others. The sooner we start on Monday, the sooner we get results. If you are charged with being on the phone, making sales calls from the moment the day begins, then follow this process. Make your first calls to your hot leads—the ones you need to follow up with the most.

4.Do not use any time on Monday to get organized. This is an activity you do at the end of the week or on the weekend. Spending time on Monday getting organized and caught up on things signals to your brain that you are choosing to gear up slowly for Monday and the week. Sorry, you do not have time for this! If you attack Monday hard, you will attack the entire week hard. Nothing will take up more time than getting organized. I have seen far too many sales people spend more time on organization and administration than any other activity.



Monday Morning



5.Start your day taking ten minutes to recap all the successes you had last week and the successes you plan to have this week. Your brain thinks differently when you put it into a positive state. Too often, we can find ourselves dwelling for days and weeks on something that did not go the way we wanted it to. The solution is to crowd out the negative by focusing on the positive. There is no better way to renew your mind than by thinking back to last week and remembering the positive moments, no matter how small they may be.

6.Spend ten minutes in quiet preparation. Focus on your faith or meditating. Reflect on who you are and all you have to be thankful for, including those around you. The greatest asset you have is you. You are worth being taken care of mentally, physically, and emotionally. Sales is much more of a mental game than it is a physical game. These ten minutes of solitude and preparation can be the best investment you make in yourself.

7.Intentionally schedule time to thank three other people within the first two hours of your day. Each day we encounter people. We may encounter as few as five or as many as several hundred. Each one of them deserves our respect. When we take the time to thank them, it not only impacts their day but ours as well. Many of you reading this book work in a remote role. Just because you are remote does not mean you are excused from doing this. You still have email, text messaging, and other means to reach others. Your impact could be to a coffee barista or other people you encounter in the morning.

8.Take care of yourself physically with a morning workout routine. I will let you be the judge of what you need to do, but for me, it can be as quick as a fifteen-minute workout if that is what time allows. The objective is to get your heart rate up and stimulate the flow of blood and oxygen in your body. It is time to be blunt again: Low achievers do not take care of their physical bodies!

9.Tackle the “one thing” you know you need to do. More time is wasted worrying about and pondering how to deal with that big issue that needs to be handled. Brian Tracy has a great quote: “If the first thing you do each morning is to eat a live frog, you can go through the day with the satisfaction of knowing that is probably the worst thing that is going to happen to you all day long!” Tackle the hardest thing first to get it out of the way and help clear your mind. I have always loved this approach. It is amazing at how much time can be wasted stewing over something rather than simply doing it.

10.Stay off social media on Mondays! Social media is the bane of productivity. The idea of just taking two minutes to check Facebook or LinkedIn is a joke; two minutes quickly becomes twenty minutes. At the end of twenty minutes, your brain is now filled with every shiny object imaginable because you are seeing what other people are doing and wondering if you should be doing it too. Social media is a tool for your benefit, but do not spend Monday morning wading through social media, because it will quickly work against you.



Now that you have read the ten things to make your Mondays awesome, you might have thought that these same ten things will work for every other day of the week. You are right! For now, I am just saying they are your Monday lists. Let us start by making Mondays awesome and build out from there.

This is a perfect time for me to invite you to join me in the discussion online, the “A Mind for Sales” community. Join me at https://AMindForSales.com/Community. Share your ideas about these ten steps and the results you are achieving.





CHAPTER 3

It Is All About You





“You cannot lead anyone until you first lead yourself.” —MARK HUNTER





IF YOU WANT the definition of insanity, try driving for 100 miles between appointments as a new salesperson. Years ago, while working for the second company I would be fired from, my territory consisted of Eastern Oregon. It covered 40,000 square miles, making it bigger than fifteen other states. This means one thing—I had a lot of windshield time, easily several hours per day. It is amazing the level of conversation you can have with just a windshield. Correction, it is amazing how much your mind can wander while you’re staring through a windshield for that long. I remember all too well leaving a call that did not go well and rehashing everything that went wrong while driving two hours to my next call. I recounted all of the mistakes. You can only imagine my mental state by the end of those two hours. No wonder I wasn’t cutting it as a salesperson! I was possibly the worst personal coach and motivator in the western United States.

You may never have endured a driving arrangement like mine, but most likely, you can relate with a similar situation. I can think back to multiple instances where one bad call wrecked the next one and even destroyed the whole day. How many times have you made a sales call without having your head in the game? If you say never, you are probably not telling the truth. Or, you have never made a sales call.

It can be easy to say, “Shut out the noise! Do not let one bad situation impede another call!” It becomes far more difficult to actually do that, because our minds can be the greatest obstacle to overcome.




Your own mind is the single greatest obstacle you will need to overcome to be successful.




I’m really starting to rack up these tough truths, aren’t I?

The number of times I have had people complain to me about how painful Mondays are because of the job they do, what they have to sell, makes me laugh. These people are allowing their circumstances to control their belief system. If somebody told you to go play in the middle of the freeway, you would not do it. You would not do it because it would be stupid. Your brain does not have to process that idea very long because of what you believe to be true. Why does our brain require only a nanosecond to process the idea of playing in the middle of a busy freeway but it dwells for hours on something that will never hurt us? We allow the fear of hearing “no” from customers to drive us into shutdown mode. You may be saying, “Okay, Sales Hunter, you are comparing apples to oranges.” Yes, I know I am. But I am trying to drive home a point. Unless our job puts us in physical harm, why do we allow ourselves to stress out? It is our decision to choose how we respond to things. Nobody is telling us to get stressed out over Monday, but we allow ourselves to stress because our belief system is not strong enough. Society and those around us are freaking out about Monday and so we think we need to as well. Why are we allowing external conditions to impact our internal thinking?




IS THAT AN OAK TREE STICKING OUT OF YOUR BRAIN?




The challenge remains: how do you overcome the seeds of doubt that grow into mighty oak trees in your mind? Think about the disclaimer written on many financial product advertisements: “Past results are not an indication of future performance.” I know you have seen this line and probably have heard it hundreds of times. Take a moment to let it sink into your mind. You cannot allow whatever happened in the past to impede whatever you are about to do in the present and future. Tom Brady, quarterback for the New England Patriots in the National Football League, is widely regarded as the best who has ever played the game. It is easy to look at what he does as perfection; however, many plays do not go well for him. He is still capable of being intercepted or losing yardage on a play. What I appreciate about top athletes like Tom Brady is they do not allow the poor results of one play to impede how they handle the next play. They go into every play expecting the best. This mindset is one of the biggest differences I find between the average salesperson and the peak performer. The peak performer moves on and does not allow what occurred in the past to impact how they feel about the next activity. Clearly, when I was driving the road of Eastern Oregon I was not playing at the same level as Tom Brady.

Since you and I both have the same thing in common—our names are not Tom Brady—let me share a few approaches that I have found to be helpful in overcoming negative sales calls. First of all, relax! Remind yourself it is only one sales call. Ask yourself this question: “In thirty days from now, will I even remember this call?” Your answer is probably “no.” Neither will the customer, so quit overthinking! By overthinking a negative sales call, you are only fertilizing negative seeds in your mind. This is one of the reasons I coach salespeople struggling with their mindsets to have a list of outcomes they have helped customers achieve. Having a list to always reference helps prevent negative seeds from growing into full-blown thought patterns.

When you have a bad call, there is a tendency to seek out somebody who will sympathize with you. I am amazed at the number of salespeople who have told me they respond to a bad call by shutting things down. They claim they are still being productive because they are doing paperwork. Some say they even call their significant other to vent. Excuse me but doing busy work or whining to your significant other is not what you are getting paid for! You are being paid to sell, not complain. This behavior will only result in selling less and being terminated sooner.

Dealing with bad calls requires us to rise above venting and going passive. Instead, try reaching out to contact an existing customer. Your objective is to follow up with them on something. In doing so, they will quickly show you their appreciation. When we take time to reach out and deepen the relationship with those we value, it will not take long for them to share about how they value us, our company, and how we have helped them. Boom! You now have instant confidence and motivation—all thanks to one of your current customers. This is an approach I have shared for years and it is amazing the positive feedback I have received. Sometimes, when I share this, salespeople will joke about the idea. Soon after they have a bad call, suddenly they will find themselves reaching out to an existing customer for a quick boost of confidence.




DARK SECRETS OF A TOP PERFORMER




Over the years, I have been fortunate to have a front-row seat to thousands of salespeople of all various levels. Many are at the top of their game and crushing their numbers while others are brand-new to selling. Something that never ceases to surprise me is the amount of fear in people, no matter their level—veteran all the way down to rookie. Fear and hesitation are not foreign to top performers. Does this surprise you? Not me! I am going to share a story with you about a top performer. For the sake of respect and confidentiality, we will not use her real name, so we will call her “Kathy.” Kathy was a salesperson who encouraged everyone, not just in her company but even customers and others in the industry. After several years, I had the opportunity to meet her. Let me tell you, she did not let me down. Kathy lived up to everything I had heard and more. She was a highly motivated salesperson driven to help others 24/7. Her reputation and results showed it. After working with Kathy and her company for a few months, I got to know her, and she trusted me.

The more we talked, the more she shared about the internal struggles that she was dealing with in her own mind. Inside this peak performer was a person who absolutely dreaded having to make a phone call to a prospect she did not know. In confidence, she shared with me that she would spend hours preparing for a single call and always look for every angle possible to pawn the call off on someone else in the company. She attributed this to what she called “mild depression,” and her self-cure was sales. More importantly, her “fix” was closing deals others brought to her and getting customers to love her.

You can imagine how shocked I was to discover this hidden reality about Kathy. I was honored she felt comfortable enough to open up and reveal insights about herself she had only previously shared with her husband. Although I felt privileged to hear all of this, it was a burden I knew needed to be dealt with somehow. As we all know, you cannot hide behind a mask forever.

Digging deeper into Kathy’s background, I discovered she had spent years with her current company. She joined at a time when they had an amazing line-up of products and a strong customer base. Kathy received very structured training and was supported by great leaders. This rather sheltered start resulted in never having to face the brutal unstructured world of sales that most salespeople are forced to live in from the start. Her lack of street smarts forced her to rely on marketing to get customers ready to buy. Kathy was also fortunate to be assigned to a hot territory with accounts that were growing exponentially. There was no way she could not be successful; she was set up for it. There was no way she was not going to win every award, so she did. Everyone would say that her life was good, but there was still one major problem: Kathy’s success prevented her from ever having to learn how to nurture prospects and manage an entire sales pipeline from lead to customer.

Over the years, the market, industry, and even her territory changed—her sales began to slide. Her accounts stopped growing and some were even falling by the wayside. The repeat business she had counted on for years was simply going away. Through luck, she stayed at the top for a couple of years, but then she could not even hold onto that leverage. Suddenly, the reverence others held for her began to erode too. This one-woman sales machine began to struggle, and she could not come to grips with it. Her hesitation to call anyone who was not already a customer or a super-qualified lead increased. The negative seeds in her mind grew into giant oak trees.

After working with her one-on-one for several months, she become somewhat comfortable on the phone making prospecting calls, but she never became truly confident. In fact, she never became comfortable enough to make prospecting calls while other salespeople were around. Building new customers was just too hard for her. As her sales continued to fade, she looked for the easy way out and took it by volunteering to leave the company during a round of layoffs. I still look back on Kathy and think to myself how much success she could have had if only she had mastered her own mind.

I ran into her a few months back and asked how retirement was treating her. She openly shared the truth with me. At best, she was not happy because she did not end her sales career the way she wanted. And this is the ugly truth, or shall I say the lesson to be learned: true success will never be achieved where a person is burdened by hesitation and struggles of the mind.

Life is not about winning the lottery. It is not about finding a brand-new Ferrari in your driveway, keys in it, and a note saying, “It is yours, free!” Life is hard. It involves thousands of encounters and, in the end, it is what you choose to make of it. Nobody can or will make your life for you. As you saw with Kathy, others may have put her on the pedestal of success, but she knew the pedestal was not solid.

Each day you have to make a decision, or the decision will be made for you. The decision is whether you will choose to have a great day full of opportunities or one of responding to what is thrown at you. Going back to Kathy’s story one final time, she chose to take what was laid down right at her feet, and that was it. Fortunately, she was able to have a great dance for some time with what was at her feet; however, as soon as the music changed, she was no longer able to move on the dance floor. She was no longer prepared because she failed to be proactive and master the new skill sets required. Kathy wore her mask of confidence well, and it allowed her to be seen as the best, but it did not last. I wonder what her advice would be to other salespeople who face major issues, both personal and professional. There is no doubt that she was positive in her external outlook and how she came across to others, but she was not effective in preparing herself for the real world.

You need to master your mind, your time and your heart to reach the level of success you are capable of achieving long-term. If you want to be a leader tomorrow, you need to be a leader today.





CHAPTER 4

Sales Is Leadership. Leadership Is Sales.





“Leadership belongs to those who take it.” —SHERYL SANDBERG





ASK YOURSELF: HAVE you ever met a great leader who is not a great salesperson? The same goes for salespeople, too. Have you ever met a top-performing salesperson who is not a great leader? My definition of a great leader is the same definition as a great salesperson: to help others see and achieve what they did not think was possible. Think about it for a moment and put it into context both for yourself and your job. You sell something, either a product or a service. The product or service you sell is designed to help the customer achieve something. When you have a prospect who does not know you or what you are selling, what are you doing? You are helping them to see and achieve what they did not think was possible.

When I speak on this point, I typically show pictures of two people: Sir Winston Churchill and General Dwight Eisenhower. Both of these individuals played key roles in World War II. Churchill served as the British prime minister and Eisenhower served as the supreme commander of the Allied Expeditionary Forces in Europe. Both played key roles leading others by selling the outcome that they desired.

Winston Churchill was known for his oratory skills and ability to impact others. His determination and conviction were clear in every word he spoke. There was no doubt as to his resolve to Britain through the darkest days of World War II. Ask yourself: was he leading or selling? He was doing both. The overlap of the two was Churchill’s greatest strength.

General Eisenhower was the one who made the decision to commence Operation Overlord. Today, we know this as the Battle of Normandy or “D-Day,” which was a critical turning point in World War II. On the eve of the battle, he delivered a compelling message to the troops who would engage in battle only a few hours later. General Eisenhower was clearly both leading and selling every step along the way.

My guess is that these two leaders approached Monday and every day with great focus and commitment on making an impact. This is exactly what your objective is: to impact those around you. I do not think Winston Churchill or General Eisenhower ever woke up and said his goal for the day was not to impact anyone. Putting it into very simple terms, they knew their mission was to make a difference.

Who will you impact today? Nobody can be successful in sales without first impacting someone. It is only logical to conclude that the more people you impact, the greater your ability to close more sales. Sales is merely the activity we do to travel across the bridge toward our true goal of impacting others.

Most likely, we will never be in a position with as great an influence as Prime Minister Churchill or General Eisenhower, but that does not excuse us from our obligations. Every one of our conversations every day are significantly important.

Throughout my travels, I find myself using all different forms of transportation. On one particular day, I found myself in the backseat of an Uber car driven by someone making their very first pickup. Yes, I was the first passenger. How do I know that? Because I asked. I always like to engage in conversation with those around me. The first question I ask is always, “How has Uber been for you?” The responses I receive are fascinating and naturally lead to more questions and conversation. Now, remember I am in sales, so I am all about engaging the other person in a conversation. This particular driver responded with, “Good I guess, but then again, you are my first passenger.” The next ten minutes flew by, figuratively, not literally. I had a great time encouraging and helping my driver see the good that he was doing. For him, driving Uber was helping him earn extra cash while going to college.

After exiting the Uber car, I could not help but wonder what must have been going through that gentleman’s head. Hopefully I encouraged him so much he had a positive first day driving for Uber. I have no idea where he is today or what he is doing, but I can trust that I was able to encourage him during our brief car ride together. In doing so, I demonstrated both sales and leadership.

When you look up the word sales in a dictionary, it is interesting what you find. Here is what Merriam-Webster has to say:




Sales adjective \ ‘sālz \ Definition of sales: of, relating to, or used in selling




Mike Weinberg, a great friend and the author of New Sales Simplified, took Merriam-Webster to task. He does not see sales as an adjective; he sees it as a verb. It is all about action and being proactive. Just in case you do not know what a verb is, think of it as an action word or a state of being. Isn’t that what sales is all about? It is about taking action and making an impact.

Sales is not something we wait to do; it is something we do—just like leadership. I am a firm believer that sales is leadership and leadership is sales. When we wake up each morning, our objective should be just that: sell and lead.

I cannot end this chapter without addressing something critical. If I ask you who is the most important person you will ever sell to and lead, what would you say? A variety of people I am certain are coming to mind. But I want to say with high confidence, that person is you. You are the most important person you will ever sell to or lead. I share this at the end of the chapter for one reason: what we read last tends to impact us the most. If we cannot lead ourselves, how can we expect to lead others? If you would not buy from yourself, what makes you think anyone else would buy from you? Sales leadership is not merely words, they are the foundation from which we do everything—not just on Monday but every day.





CHAPTER 5

Sales Is Not Your Job. Sales Is Your Lifestyle.





“You were not born a winner, and you were not born a loser. You are what you make yourself to be.” —LOU HOLTZ





DOES MAKING SALES calls excite or drain you? Be honest with yourself. Which one do you most identify with? Let me share a Friday experience where I felt both emotions.

After being on the road speaking for several weeks in a row, I came home to a Friday in the office. You can imagine how tired and unmotivated I was. I had no energy. As I stared at the list of clients and prospects I needed to contact, I became less and less interested in pursuing them and more taken by the thought that I could just blow them off until next week. I thought to myself, it would not be a big deal, business was good, and the customers and prospects were not expecting my call anyway.

As the day went on, morning quickly turned into midafternoon. I realized if I did not make the calls, I would be letting myself down, so I decided to go ahead and make just two of them. Ironically, those two calls got me all jazzed up. Actually, they made me crazy excited! The two calls did not entail six-figure deals. They were merely conversations with a couple of customers, but they got me motivated, and so motivated that I ended up making every call on my list that afternoon. I know you are probably thinking that I am strange and there is no way that I live in your world. The deal is that I do live in your world. I’ll be honest, not every call that afternoon went well. A couple were rejections, but the more I talked, the more I enjoyed it. Each call presented an opportunity to learn and I quickly forgot about the calls that did not go well.

To me, sales is not a job. Remember the two jobs I got fired from? Those were jobs. No matter how many calls I make or customers I speak to, sales is not a job—it is a lifestyle. I view sales as the act of reaching out and impacting others. It is one of the few professions that involves helping people all day long.




When you view sales as taking from others, it’s a job. View sales as helping others and you’ll be on the path of making sales a lifestyle.




If you spend your day making cold calls, you probably want to scream right now at my “sales is a lifestyle” comment. I get it. I really know. Right now, you are thinking, “Okay Sales Hunter, put on a headset and let me see you do 150 outbound in a day, all to people who are not expecting your call.” Yes, I agree that it is a grind, but let me be serious. Regardless of how each call goes or how bad they might make you feel, are you putting any children at risk? Is anyone shedding blood? Are any animals being harmed? No! You are only making phone calls. Relax, take a deep breath and remember that the sun will still come up tomorrow morning! Now, let me put some meat on your bones and ask you, what is your objective in making prospecting calls? Do you know? Pause and reflect. Your objective is to try and sell something. Let’s go deeper and acknowledge that it is not just about selling. It is about helping someone. Do you remember my definition of sales in the last chapter? It is about helping others see and achieve what they did not think was possible. Let me say that again with my next blunt comment:




Sales is about helping others see and achieve what they did not think was possible.




Accept the fact that your prospecting calls will disrupt people. I doubt anyone you called woke up excited knowing that you would call them today. Hey, I doubt your mother would even feel that way. No offense. Real transformation typically begins with some sort of disruption. Get past the fact that you are a burden. You are helping others see possibilities! You are simply (and boldly) promoting possibilities to those who want more for themselves and their companies. No one will know how much you can help them until you make the call and frankly, disrupt them.

The calls you make, even to those who are just casual leads at best, are still opportunities for you to help. After you reach them the first time or even the tenth time, they still may not know or see your value, but it does not mean you cannot help them. They just have not realized it yet. Sales is about helping others. Sales is about delivering incremental outcomes to people who do not expect it. Call me sick, but I am getting pumped just writing this!

If you mention the word salesperson, many people will give you an earful about how they do not like salespeople. They may share that all salespeople lie, cheat, and a variety of other things. I always cringe when I hear this. Sales is so much more. It is a pathway to amazing outcomes for the salesperson and the customer. Others’ negative perception can slowly seep into the minds of salespeople, especially when things are not going right. This is why I focus on understanding the key outcomes that I can provide to customers. We have all heard the term features and benefits and been led to believe knowing these are the answer. I want to move past the fundamentals of features and benefits and see the true value that every customer receives when they choose to buy from you.

Customers do not want to be sold anything. They want to buy solutions to help them achieve their desired outcome. Sometimes, your customers know the outcome before they even begin the process. Many times, what they achieve is vastly better than what they expected, all thanks to you—the salesperson. How can you not get excited when helping people achieve greater outcomes? How can you not see sales as more than a job?

First, take a step back and think of the customers you have had the privilege of serving. Our ability to sell helps the customer, but we have to understand why. This is where it is important to know all about the outcome. Grab a pen and paper and make a list of all your customers. Under each one, write down every outcome the customer has received as a result of doing business with you. Some of these will be obvious and basic, but try to think deeper. Ask yourself: what really happened after the sale, even weeks or months later? Many times, the impact of what we sell is not fully realized by the customer until months later. Your goal is to list every outcome for every customer. Each customer is like fuel to your sales engine.

Let me share an example. I was helping a large sales team develop a new sales strategy for the updated software they were getting ready to launch. Marketing came in and built out the normal marketing pitch with all the bells and whistles. Unfortunately, the sales force was not on the same page; they did not like the bells and whistles. The first thing we did was determine their customer’s outcomes from buying from them. Then, we listed any additional outcomes received from the new upgrade. Initially, the sales force did not like my idea. They thought it was just restating the obvious; however, when we zeroed in on one customer and I took control, light bulbs began to go off.

This customer was an enterprise-level business operating in several countries. They had grown due to several large acquisitions in emerging industries. As we pushed deeper into our thinking, we began to understand how this company’s software helped others. Here are some of the more robust outcomes that they began to realize:



Senior management eliminated one global meeting per year and used this time increasing the number of customer calls that uncovered and created several new strategic partnerships.



By analyzing industry data more quickly with the help of the new software, they were able to buy two new companies at a lower multiple. If not for the higher speeds, the purchase would have taken longer because of competitive bids.



A major university created a new internship after this company allowed them to use the software in their business school. This upgraded the quality of candidates to whom the school was able to extend job offers.



The software required less support, allowing the IT staff more time and flexibility. In turn, IT was available to diagnose and solve major issues more quickly, reducing the need for outside consultants.



These are just four of the major outcomes that we uncovered. Over ten significant outcomes were discovered in total. As we began discussing these and their implications on the customer, it was amazing to see every salesperson engaged. Each one suddenly began to see two things: first, a higher value of what they were selling and the importance of not just selling something but really partnering with customers to understand how to help them. Suddenly, rolling out the new upgrade was not seen as a ‘have to’ but a ‘need to,’ because a lot of customers desperately needed their product.

When we begin seeing sales as something we need to do to help customers, we will be well on our way to seeing it as more than a job. Sales is not a job. Sales is a lifestyle.





CHAPTER 6

Annual Goals Are Just the Starting Point





“Always do your best. What you plant now, you will harvest later.” —OG MANDINO





IF SOMETHING IS worth doing, it is worth measuring. False! Eating is something worth doing, but I most certainly won’t measure everything I eat. Not everything worth doing is worth measuring. I have seen too many sales forces get bogged down by measuring too many things. One time, I saw a team measure the number of times that they called their office each day. My response to this is, “Stupid!” Just because it can be measured does not mean that it should be.

Ask yourself what you are measuring. I do not want to see you or anyone you work for creating things to measure just because you can. This is one of the big things I dislike about Customer Relationship Management (CRM) systems. They track so much stuff that it becomes a flat-out waste of time and effort.

What you should have is a set of measurements that are meaningful and will help you be successful. Anything you measure should have value. If you are in sales, you have my permission to call out Human Resources, Finance, IT, or any other department in your company mandating that you measure, track, or record something they feel is meaningful. If they feel it is meaningful but you do not, let them use their own resources to measure it! You have far more important things to do. There are not many things that get me fired up as much as this problem, because there is no reason for it. When I left my corporate role to begin my consulting business, this was one battle I was glad I would never have to fight again.

Almost every week I run into somebody who asks me how many times I have heard the word no. They think it is something that I must keep track of and have a running total. The response I like to give is, “Just about as many times as people like you have asked me that question.” Usually that response shuts them up. If somebody were to measure the number of times they hear “no” from a customer, they would probably be depressed. This is another problem with measuring these goals. Choose to measure something that will motivate you and drive your performance forward rather than driving you into a state of despair.

The bottom line is: sales is about helping people. To help you do that effectively, you will need a scoreboard. One common trait among all people, myself included, is the fact that we love to measure and compare ourselves to others. Be honest. Isn’t that what you do when you spend time on social media? Every top performer loves seeing their name at the top of the latest sales ranking report. However, people will not see how that top performer plays out on their own scoreboard. The top 1 percent of salespeople are consumed with measuring results. Conversely, the only ones who do not like measurements and scorecards are those at the bottom. It is true that the more success you have, the more you will want to measure. The top performer is about measuring everything. To them, everything is a competition and the competition will not be over until they have won.




MEASUREMENTS THAT COUNT




When I help clients increase their sales performance, here are some things we measure:



1.The percentage of time spent customer-facing: The time spent either physically in front of a customer, talking on the phone with them, or actively corresponding with them via email. The goal is to increase the amount of time spent customer-facing.

2.The percentage of leads that turn into customers: This helps tell us the quality of leads and what the overall effectiveness of the sales process is. The goal is to increase this percentage long-term.

3.How many days it takes to turn the average lead into a customer: This is a simple measurement that helps evaluate both the sales process and resources spent to close a sale. The shorter the length of cycle, the more efficient you will be.

4.The percentage of sales from new customers each year: This is a quick snapshot into the effectiveness of prospecting.

5.The number of calls made to find a qualified prospect: There is no perfect number or ideal goal for this measurement; it will depend significantly on the customer base, what is being sold, and so on. The key is to ensure that the number does not have violent swings; this would indicate there is an issue that needs to be dealt with.

6.The ratio between offers made and deals closed: There are several things to read here, including if there are offers being made too soon or offers being made that do not fit the customer’s needs. Other items that can be learned include the effectiveness of the salesperson not just in closing but in how well they execute the entire sales process.

7.The percentage of time spent on administration and general office work: This number will always be too high. The only perfect number in this area is 0 percent, but you knew that I would say that! The goal is for this number to always trend downward.



Did you notice that I did not list the number of prospects in your sales funnel or the number of sales calls made per day? These numbers are easy to measure, and that is why they get measured; however, just because they are easy to measure does not mean they bring value. I know many top performers who have fewer prospects than anyone else in their company. I know other top performers who make fewer sales calls per week than their peers. No, such people are not outliers just gifted with a great territory. They know what they need to do starting first thing on Monday and continue doing it each and every day.




DO NOT TOUCH THE RESET BUTTON




Mondays are your day to push forward on your goals, not to push the reset button. I am all in favor of pushing the reset button after a bad sales call; that is why we have a reset button. This button exists to keep you from letting your past muddle the future. The fastest way to reset yourself after a bad call is to move onto the next call! You probably thought I was going to share some secret solution. I did! It is called getting back on the horse fast and continuing the ride.

Many struggling salespeople are quick to think that if they just reset their goals, they will be successful. The problem is that they become consumed with continually resetting their goals and lose sight of the real need to make sales calls. Resetting goals is not the answer to failing performance. Goals are set to be achieved, not tweaked so many times they become so easy to achieve you are able to blow past them in your sleep.

Rather than resetting your goals, reset your plan of attack to achieve them.




IT IS YOUR TIME TO USE OR WASTE




Is your goal to start out each day checking your email? Many of you need to be honest and say, “Yes.” If you are not saying yes to looking at email first, there is a high probability that you are checking social media. Can I go ahead and scream right now?! You have read this far in the book, and that means you have read my “10-Step Game Plan for Managing Your Week.” Nowhere on that list does it say you should use your valuable selling time checking social media updates.

I am amazed at the number of salespeople I speak to who say they always start each morning checking social media. When I ask them why, their response is that they either want to ease into work or they say it is the only time in the day they have free. Great! Let me follow this logic. The only time of the day I have free is first thing in the morning, so let me waste it on social media. It is time to shift your thinking. If your only free time is in the morning, that is the perfect time to focus on your highest priorities for the day. I am just thinking, but my suspicion is that your high-level activity is not reading what people did over the weekend.

If your goal is not to achieve success, then make it your goal to check social media first thing each morning and especially on Mondays. Hey, why not go ahead and block out the first two hours of every Monday to get caught up on just social media. Just think of all of the stupid emojis you can use when making comments about what other people did over the weekend. If you are starved for fake friends, go and do it. If you think it is a great way to be successful in sales, guess again.

Go ahead and laugh. But the reality is, I know too many salespeople who have as one of their goals to get “x” more connections on LinkedIn or Facebook. They feel if they just get to 30,000 connections on LinkedIn they will never have to prospect again. (Fact: I have more than 10x that number and I am still not exempt from prospecting.) A recovering social media addict confessed to me they had been spending two to three hours a day on social media. They also confessed that they had not made quota in over a year. This person was in recovery because they had just lost their job. Just a correlation? I will let you draw your own conclusion.

You might be thinking, “So when is the right time to check email?” Email is there for your advantage, not someone else’s. The worst thing you can do is to have an objective around email. There is nothing wrong with striving to be caught up, but do not kid yourself: Most emails you receive are a waste of time. Emails are about reading this, checking that, and following up with something else. These are all good things, but are they essential? They might be essential to someone else, but they are not essential to you. Yes, I am being brutal, but email is a beast that will consume anything and everything if given the opportunity. My approach is to scan my email in the morning and only react to those emails I deem truly pressing. All others can and do wait. Three or four times a week I will block out time to speed through the rest. I control email, I do not allow email to control me.

Let’s skip the whole discussion about what a goal is and how to measure one. That is basic. Instead, we will cut straight to the meat of goals and discuss their impact on your mental state and your level of long- and short-term success. There is not one of us who can stop time, and this means there is not one of us who can stop having stuff happen.




ARE YOUR GOALS REALLY YOURS?




Who is in charge when it comes to your goals? Are you in charge or is someone else? Most salespeople, when pushed, will admit someone else is the one in charge when it comes to their goals. It is their manager who determines their most important goals, such as their quarterly or annual number. I get it. In my corporate role as a Director of Sales Operations, it was my job to assign the quarterly numbers to the hundreds of salespeople in the field. Did I get pushback? You bet, every day! Somebody would always be barking about how unfair their number was and how there was no way they could achieve their number. The barking was a complete waste of time and only served to do one thing, divert their attention away from what they needed to be doing, which was working with their customers.

I had a common response when a salesperson would come to me with an elaborate presentation and spreadsheet trying to convince me to change their number. My response would be, “You wouldn’t be trying to get me to alter your number if you put as much time into your customer meetings as you are putting into this one!” The moral of the story is simple: Don’t waste your energy complaining about numbers you cannot control. Focus instead on what you can control, which is your behavior and how you spend your time selling.

Your goal is to be focused on your own goals, not just on what your company assigns you. Your goals are the ones that will motivate you in ways the company goals will never be able to. The goals I’m talking about are the emotional ones you get excited about. These are the goals that will make getting up in the morning something you look forward to. Earlier in the book, I shared the idea of the Monday morning goal, but now it is time to think long-term (and I mean twenty-five years from now).

Recently, I was touring the production facility of a client I work with and was shown the workstation of a person who had occupied the same spot doing the exact same task for nearly 40 years. I only wish I had been there when the gentleman was working, because I would like to have met him and understood what motivated him. On the one hand, knowing a person like that blows my mind. On the other hand, it saddens me tremendously. I am not saying his life was not worthwhile; that is not my position. I do not know what his circumstances were, but what I do know is that I do not want that as my life.

The last thing I want to be saying forty years from now is, “Wow, I just spent forty years doing the same thing every day of my life!” No, years from now I want to say, “Wow, I just spent forty years impacting people and making a difference in their lives.” Which one gets you more excited? It comes down to one thing: Setting goals to drive what you do.

Writing this book is a great example of a goal I need to be focused on. You can imagine I have hundreds of other things I could be doing, many of which are very important. I have to weigh what activity is going to drive me closer to my goals. Without the passionate goal to share this story and the potential to impact you—and a publisher’s deadline to meet—I doubt this book would have ever happened.




WHAT DO YOUR 25-YEAR GOALS LOOK LIKE?




Four decades is a long time and I am not going to sit here and say, “Let us create forty-year goals.” No, let us spend our time looking at what our 25-year goals should be. I like 25 years for one simple reason: we are likely to live that long! Better yet, not only are we likely live that long, but we will have time to set another round of 25-year goals. My gut says there are way fewer than 1 percent of the readers of this book who can boldly state they have 25-year goals and are working toward them on a regular basis. Many of you may have 25-year dreams but without a plan you are actively executing, they will never become anything more than a dream.

Fast forward in your life and ask yourself what you want your legacy to be. My father was blessed with multiple careers that included a minister, parole officer, stock broker, and politician. If you were to ask him if these jobs were in his 25-year plan, he would have laughed. Clearly, none of the other jobs beyond what he went to school for were in his plan. But he wound up having multiple careers in an era when most men his age had one, maybe two, jobs in their entire lifetime. They may have been a wide range of careers, but each one helped him fulfill not only his 25-year goal, but his life goal—to impact others in a positive manner. Go ahead and say it, the apple did not fall too far from the tree. You are right, that is my life’s mission too.

My life’s mission of impacting others is what drives me to attack each day with excitement, even when things are not going well. I remember vividly when my father was a stockbroker and the country was in a recession. Everyone was losing money on their investments. Despite what was happening around him, I still hear his always optimistic voice helping others through their situation. He refused to accept the short-term as being long-term. Dad’s perspective was, the short-term would soon pass, which (as always) it did. Through it all, he remained focused and motivated. He never knew what the success wheel was, but he lived it.

What would your 25-year goals look like? How could you break them down into smaller goals of five years or even three years? It is said that we overestimate what we can get done in a day but underestimate what we can accomplish over a long period of time. I think of the words spoken by President John F. Kennedy on September 12, 1962:



We choose to go to the moon. We choose to go to the moon in this decade and do the other things, not because they are easy, but because they are hard, because that goal will serve to organize and measure the best of our energies and skills, because that challenge is one that we are willing to accept, one we are unwilling to postpone, and one which we intend to win, and the others, too.



We all know how that worked out! On July 20, 1969, the men of Apollo 11, Neil Armstrong, and Buzz Aldrin, successfully landed on the moon, walked on the surface and returned safely. What a truly amazing feat few thought would be possible earlier in the decade. If ever there was a big goal, this was it. Yet it was accomplished not in 25 years but in less than ten.




WHAT IS YOUR MOON SHOT?




As you think of your 25-year goal, I want you to view it with this question in mind: “Is my 25-year goal worthy of me calling it my moon shot?” Each man and woman involved in the race to the moon in the 1960s, regardless of what their role was, knew clearly what the mission was. Your role is to be just as focused on your mission.

There are those who go through life merely reacting to what happens around them, and there are those who go through life making it happen. Which one are you? It starts with your goals, and it ends with what you do with your goals. Too many people are great at making goals but fail miserably when it comes to achieving them. Seek not to set goals you can achieve easily; seek to set goals that will challenge and change the future.





CHAPTER 7

Sales Is Not Customer Service. Do Not Confuse the Two.





“Presenting is not the same thing as selling.” —MIKE WEINBERG





THE JOURNEY WE each traveled to wind up in sales is different. There are those who knew from a young age they wanted a career in sales. I certainly cannot say I was one of them. Others found sales as a career option by way of a class or a professor in college. I cannot say that was me either. My suspicion is the majority of you wound up in sales due to one turn of events or another after you left school. Yes, that would be me. The turns people take to wind up in sales are amazing. This may explain how you wound up in sales, but it does not explain why you are in sales.

There is no requirement to enter a sales position. For that matter, a new salesperson does not even need to know what the objective of sales is. Trust me, I have met those people, they are out there! What pains me is the number of salespeople who are anything but salespeople. They may have sales in their title and have it written fifty times in their job description but the title and description do not mean a thing to them. There are salespeople who do not have a clue as to what they are supposed to be doing or why they are supposed to be doing it! There are others who have been told they are in sales but they do not want others to know. Such people would rather be called anything but a salesperson. To them, sales is a demeaning position.

Maybe this begins to explain why there is so much confusion as to what the role of a salesperson is and why there is so much turnover. Ask ten people their definition of sales and you will get ten different definitions. This confusion is why I see too many people viewing a sales position as something they will try out for a while. They will give it some effort and if it works, they will stick around. If it does not work, they move on. If people cannot even be focused on the core of what to do, it is no wonder so many salespeople end up being focused on the wrong activity.

We have been told since we were just toddlers to be nice to everyone. Remember the time your Mom took a toy from you because you would not share it with your sister? We have been told nice is about listening to others and helping them even it if means sharing our toys. Fast forward this early learning to the present. It translates into us giving away all the toys as a new salesperson. Too many new salespeople feel the way they will be successful is by answering every question the customer asks. Whatever request the customer makes is answered with a, “Yes, we will take care of it,” regardless of the impact.

A myth too many salespeople buy into is, the sales profession is just glorified customer service taking care of customers by being nice to them. Falling into that trap is just that—a trap! Buy into that myth and you will not prospect because you might be disturbing someone. Buy into that myth and you will not keep reaching out to a customer when they are not responding to you. Buy into that myth and you will make statements and claims about what your company can do for them after they buy even when you know you cannot deliver. Buy into that myth and anytime you are negotiating with a customer, you will roll over like a dog and give them anything they want. Buy into that myth and you will not last long in sales. Time for another blunt truth:




Sales is not customer service! Sales is about creating incremental value.




I am sure this comment rattled a few of you, and I am glad it did. If you want to be in customer service, go get a customer service job—there are plenty of them out there. On the other hand, if you want to help bring incremental value to people, then sales is your ticket. Every day, your focus must be on your leads, prospects, and customers. Your one purpose is to help them see and achieve what they did not think was possible. This means you will interrupt them, you will challenge them, and you will push them when necessary. Think of sales as doing for others what they would not do on their own. Sales is about delivering incremental value to the customer when they were not expecting it and most likely did not know they needed it.

Think back, if you are old enough, to the days before smartphones. We were happy with our flip phone; to us that was a huge improvement from the original cell phones that were more like a brick. Suddenly, Steve Jobs comes along and tells us we need something different—something called a smartphone, a device that included a camera, music player and computer all in a phone. We were not asking for it because we did not see the possibility. The idea of a smartphone was not something we were thinking about. If Steve Jobs was not into selling and just into customer service, he would have created an awesome flip phone. Sales is about showing the customer incremental outcomes; it is not about merely taking care of what they think they need.

You are in sales. It is your job each day to help people move to the next level even when they are not thinking they need to. The “why” of your sales job must be 100 percent focused on selling your smartphone to a flip phone market. If you do not help the customer see what they need to, who will?

Your objective each day is to push your customers. This means never settling for merely what you hear but challenging their ideas. Why are you in sales? To push others. Sales is not for the faint of heart. Salespeople who are faint of heart morph into customer service people. Customer service is a key activity, essential to the foundation of any company, but it lives in its own world. Yes, there must be communication between sales and customers. Yes, both departments interface customers, but the objective is different.

Think of the level of emergency services offered in your community. There are both police officers and firefighters. Both assist the same citizens but in vastly different roles. If my house was on fire, I would not want the police department responding. I would want the fire department. In most situations, the police department may respond to the call but only to provide support if needed. If a police officer were to attempt to fill the role of a firefighter, I suspect it would be anything but optimal. This analogy is no different than the one between sales and customer service. Each must know their responsibility and do it exceedingly well. When each does their job exceedingly well, it allows room for a better customer outcome. Go back to the police officer who is suddenly thrust into the role of fighting a fire. Yes, they could and would do it but certainly not as competently as a firefighter.

What is your why? Why are you in your role? Why do you get up each day to do what you do? Let me help get you started. In your role as a salesperson, one of your major “why’s” is to do what you do so exceptionally well. Customer service can do what they need to do, and your lines do not cross. My mission and your mission is to ensure each person, regardless of how they got into sales or the reason they stay in sales, is focused on just sales and nothing but sales. The more I focus on sales the more in tune I become to customers because I am pushing and challenging them to a deeper level of conversation.

Each Monday morning and for that matter every morning, I am excited to begin the day because I know my ‘why’ is to make an impact on others. I know I will not always provide them with what they want because they do not yet know what they can have. I will let customer service take care of where the customer is currently. My role is moving the customer forward.





CHAPTER 8

Sell First and Negotiate Second





“Ninety percent of selling is conviction and ten percent is persuasion.” —SHIV KHERA





ONE OF THE great misconceptions people have about sales is the notion that all salespeople want to do is negotiate. Making this worse is the misconception that negotiating is a process where both sides are trying to take advantage of each other. This perception is one I cannot stand. As bad as it is for non-salespeople to subscribe to it, there are a lot of salespeople who believe it too. No wonder so many people hate waking up on Monday morning, or any morning. They know they will be negotiating a deal. To people who think this way, having to face the lions in the middle of the Roman Colosseum with the crowd all rooting for the lions is a more viable option.

Negotiating does not have to be evil and it does not have to be part of every sales transaction. The best sales are the ones where the need to negotiate never enters into the conversation. The reason negotiation is not a central part of closing the sale is because both parties trust each other. Sales is about investing in others to know where they are coming from. This creates mutual trust.




The level of trust between both parties will determine the level of negotiation needed to make the sale.




Read that again slowly. Now stop and think about every painful negotiation you have been part of. These negotiations were painful because there was a lack of trust on both sides. If you want to minimize the need to negotiate, then work to increase the level of trust between you and the other party.

People who choose not to lead a trust-centered life are threatened by those who do. Conversely, the opposite is true. The person who is grounded in trust is drawn to others who are grounded in trust. Recently I spoke at a company sales kick-off meeting. This one was unique, as many of the salespeople were not able to attend because of an acquisition they were in the midst of executing. Management opted for them to have a separate meeting later in the year when things would be calmer. The VP of Sales wanted to have me speak to this second group but was hesitant to ask due to constraints on the budget. I was aware of the issue and at the same time, I knew the company needed me. I could have negotiated hard for a big fee and accepted nothing less, but I knew that would not benefit either of us long-term. I valued the client for their integrity and culture, and they valued me. We both knew there were many ways we could support each other, and I believed strongly in how much I could help them through their acquisition. Knowing this, I saw the value both of us would gain from having me speak at the second meeting. Since we both trusted each other, it only took us a few seconds to work out a financial plan that fit the client and my needs. If the two of us did not trust each other, it is doubtful I would have spoken to this other group, as our expectations would have been too far apart.

This example is what I refer to as, “sell first, negotiate second.” When we take the time to sell first, we establish trust and create a level of confidence. We then understand the needs of the customer at a deeper level. The higher the levels of trust, the deeper the conversations, and ultimately, the greater the outcomes will be for both sides.




Create high trust and you’ll create deep conversations.




You will find that trust is contagious. When I say contagious, I mean contagious with others you do not even know. Our reputation precedes us, especially in this hyperactive social media–driven world. You may think you do not know the prospect you are talking to, but do not think for a moment they do not know you. If your skill is taking advantage of others, it will not take long for others to learn that about you. This is why I say:




Prospect with integrity and trust, and you will attract customers who have integrity and trust.




There is a direct correlation between companies and salespeople who have low-quality customers.




YOU GET THE CUSTOMERS YOU DESERVE



We are all attracted to those who are like us. I am a strong believer that this bleeds over to the time spent in the negotiation phase of the sales process. The lower the level of trust between two parties, the longer the negotiations will be.

Waking up on Monday morning and being excited for Monday and for every other day of the week is a lot easier when you are approaching it from a foundation of trust and integrity. Now, I am not going to say having integrity will take away all stress and allow you to sleep like a baby. But what I will say is that living your life with integrity will definitely make it easier for you to sleep, and it will therefore make everything else you do better. Your reputation precedes you. The simplest way to live your life with integrity is by being accountable for what you say you will do and respecting others. Integrity is not hard to understand, but it can be hard to live out each day. My advice is simple: Identify two people who you see as being integrity-centered. Watch and learn from them, not only when things are good, but also when times are bad.

Being a trustworthy, integrity-centered person does not mean that you will never negotiate (unless what you sell is free). There are certainly those you will encounter who love to negotiate. To them, negotiation is their way of feeling better about whatever it is they are buying. To them, not being able to negotiate is a sign of weakness. A question I am frequently asked is, “How do I handle these types of people?” The first thing is to not freak out or to begin to think you need to descend with them into the negotiation gutter to get a deal done. Stooping to this level is the last thing you want to do. Do not allow yourself to go there! I will walk away from a deal long before I will negotiate with someone I do not feel is ethical. Negotiating with another party who is not ethical will result in a never-ending negotiation. To the unethical person, there is always one more thing they are seeking to take for their advantage.

For people like this, who feel they need to negotiate and with whom you have not yet built a high level of trust, you need a strategy. First, be sure to maintain your integrity. Never put yourself in a position where your integrity or the integrity of your company might be called into question. In my own business, I frequently face this challenge, and my response is always very clear. I do not negotiate just for the sake of cutting a price. If a price reduction is necessary, it is due to the other party not fully understanding the value of my offer. I can blame this on my inability to effectively uncover the true needs of the client. With this said, it does not mean I have to push the reset button and start over just because the customer is looking for a lower price. What it does mean is I need to be asking better questions to uncover the right outcome for the customer. Always view the customer’s need to negotiate as something you control.

A few years ago, I was on the phone with the CEO of a company looking to have me speak at their global sales meeting. My staff and I had done our homework with the prospect and knew very well what their issues were and how I could help them. The CEO started the conversation by saying my fee was too high and I would need to reduce it significantly. It was clear he wanted to prove to his staff who had negotiated the deal; they were not as good at negotiating as he was. His request for a lower price did not phase me. Remember, we had done our homework on both the CEO and his company. I responded to the CEO by saying, “We will not lower our fee.” Before he could respond, I continued by saying, “How much revenue do you feel is at risk next year due to your new competitor?” What I did was hit the ball back across the net with a strong level of topspin to get him off of his idea of a price reduction. I knew from earlier conversations that a major new competitor was moving in and beginning to take a large amount of their business because his sales force was not prepared. The fee he was looking to cut was insignificant compared to the amount of business they were about to lose. My question got him thinking, and he realized his issue was not my fee but a poorly trained sales force. We secured the deal, at full fee. I am pleased to say, the company warded off the competitive threat and the prediction of a dismal year turned out to be false.

We would be living in fantasyland if we expected every situation to turn out as well as the one I just shared. There are others that do not, for any number of reasons. This is not a book on negotiating, but let me say, there are easy ways to handle a negotiation while maintaining your integrity. If you reduce your price for one customer and not for another then you simply caved on the idea of having pricing integrity. Rather than cutting your price, change the business proposition to allow you to change the price. When I share a proposal with a client, there will always be things we can remove or change if necessary to fit their budget. This very simple approach allows me to ensure pricing integrity and at the same time allows the client to receive what they need most. Ironically, I have found the client who takes a lesser package will oftentimes come back later to add the items back into the deal.

Negotiation does not have to be the bone-chilling, mind-numbing part of sales you dread. Approach this part of sales with integrity and the conviction to understand the needs of the customer. Remember, sales is about helping others see and achieve what they did not think was possible. I believe 100 percent this is the job we are called to do. The ability to wake up each morning with purpose frees us from dread and allows us to reframe how we view aspects of our jobs, including negotiating. As it turns out, negotiating can feel great and can provide us with an opportunity to show who we truly are.





CHAPTER 9

Be the Difference-Maker Others Will Value





“You don’t have to be great at something to start, but you have to start to be great at something.” —ZIG ZIGLAR





PHIL GRAEF WAS the first boss I ever had who I absolutely loved—I respected him in every way. He had a charismatic personality and always had time for not just me but everyone he met, no matter how busy he was. Phil truly was a difference-maker. Although he was only my boss for a little over a year, he made a huge impact on me, and I learned a tremendous amount from him. What stuck out the most was how he always approached his first day back at work after his days off. When Phil returned, there was never any sense of drudgery or complaining about his days off not being long enough. No, Phil was excited to be back, even though he had a life outside of work. He always put his family first and was totally committed to his two children and wife. What will blow you away is Phil was my boss when I was sixteen years old. Ready for me to tell you where? McDonalds. You read that right, the McDonalds located in Lacey, Washington.

Phil lived an integrity-filled life. I share this with you because of the perception you might have about McDonalds and the food they serve. Integrity is not something that exists only in perfect situations and environments. Being motivated and enthused is not something that only exists in perfect companies. Your drive to make a difference in others, whether it be on Monday or any other day of the week, is not driven by circumstances—integrity is driven by you.

Phil Graef was a difference-maker because he did not allow external conditions to impact his internal mindset and how he led us. This is leadership and why I respected him so much. In order to make a difference, Phil knew he had to be in control of himself. There was more than one occasion when things were not going well, and I knew Phil would shortly be walking through the back door. I knew he would not stress out or add to the chaos but in his charismatic style he would soon have everything running smoothly once more.

A few years ago, I spent three days on a canoe trip with 250 high school kids. Go ahead and say it, “You are crazy.” Hey, I have known that for years! On the last day, we were to disembark at a particular landmark where busses would be waiting for us. I was one of about ten adults on the trip, and we knew our job was to keep the kids safe and have a great time. Yes, I was the one that always focused on the latter rather than the former. Since I was bringing up the rear, I was the last one to reach the point where we were to exit the canoes. I was not out of the water more than a minute before I was met with another adult telling me we were missing about twenty students. How could that be? I was the trailer; it was my duty to keep everyone ahead of me. Clearly, something went wrong. Now is a good time to tell you the reason we had to get out of the water. Further downstream, there was a dam and waterfalls, which posed extreme danger.

Here I am with (at best) six or seven other adults and well over two hundred high school students who were now beginning to realize many of their friends and siblings were nowhere to be found. You could begin to sense kids getting nervous and their attention was focused on us, the adults. The kids were looking to us to find out what was wrong and where everyone else was. We huddled together contemplating the next move. The adult in charge of the trip was clearly becoming worried. It was at this point I began to laugh out loud and in a quiet voice tell the other adults to start smiling and laughing too. The reason to laugh was simple—we were vastly outnumbered. Yes, we had a problem, but the last thing we needed was for panic and fear to run rampant. I knew the kids would be looking to us to take their cue. I knew we could make a difference with just our actions. If we looked like nothing was wrong, then it would lower their sense of concern. Yes, we still had people missing and it was a huge concern, but we could not afford to make matters worse. In less than a minute, we could see a calm come over the kids. This drove home a point about how we all take our cues from others and our environment. We can either let our environment control us or we can choose to make the most of it and see things in a positive light.

The story does have a happy ending. Soon thereafter, we heard a horn honking and a truck approaching us with the missing kids all standing up yelling and having fun in the back. The kids (and a couple adults) in the lead canoes were having so much fun racing down the river, they failed to see where to stop. Once they began to see the danger ahead, they knew they had gone too far and were able to navigate to the bank of the river. In time, they found a rancher who gave them a ride upstream to where everyone else was.




OUR IMPACT IS GREATER THAN WE REALIZE



I share these two stories for one simple reason: we cannot underestimate the impact of our actions on other people. Phil Graef was not just a great manager, he was a great leader because he knew his actions, his words, and his personality would impact others. I firmly believe I was able to handle the canoe trip experience because of what I learned from Phil. Your personality, your words, and your actions have the same impact. I am so passionate about sales because we get to impact so many other people. What could possibly be more fun than waking up Monday morning knowing you have been given the gift to impact others?

If you were to make a list of people you impact regularly, who would be on the list? If someone were to ask them about you, what would they say? How would they say you have impacted them? Every morning as I wake up, I make it my goal to impact each person I come in contact with in a positive manner, regardless of who they may be. It can range from a barista making my coffee to a CEO of a major client; it does not matter. Each person is a human being.

One year ago, I was conducting a couple of training sessions for a wonderful client of mine, Shimadzu. They asked me to work with their distributors in India. The people I was training were well educated, smart, goal-driven people. Considering the complexity of what Shimadzu made and who they sold to, it made sense these would be sharp people. Standing in front of these sales teams, I was struck by how each one of the people in the audience was no different than any other salesperson I worked with whether they be in Montreal, Canada, or Mumbai, India. They had goals, aspirations, families, and friends. They faced challenges ranging from sick children to elderly parents needing care. Each person I was training was no different and no better than me. Regardless of who we are talking to, we are all humans—we all have needs.

My goal with each person I meet is to impact them in such a manner that they see me as one of the better parts of their day. While standing in front of seventy-five salespeople in Mumbai, I was not looking to be the best part of their day. My goal was to be one of the better parts of their day. My hope was the best part of their day would be the hug from a family member or great conversation with a close friend. When we choose to see people in this way, it is amazing how much impact it has on others and on you. The more I positively impact others, the more I positively impact myself. You are your own difference-maker.




WHO IS ON YOUR SELLING TEAM?



Who is on your selling team? I do not mean who you manage. I mean who are your fans, who go beyond what is expected to help you achieve your success? A true leader is one who does not need a title but leads because of who he or she is and the impact this person has on others. In this book, I share insights on numerous people I have met who I would say are on my selling team. I would also say I am on their selling team. When you think highly of someone you cannot help but be on their selling team.

People I respect, many of whom I write about in this book, all have a common trait; they are charismatic. There is something special about being in the presence of them. Things just happen. To put it in simple terms, charismatic people attract others. Spend time around a charismatic person and you will see a person who has the ability to get others to do amazing things. John Canavan was my boss at one point in my career. To me, he walked on water, and everyone else who worked for him said the same thing. He had charisma in his blood and it showed. It was amazing what our team of eight salespeople was able to accomplish. I am in awe thinking of his ability to get other departments in the company to do things nobody else could get done. We would be on customer calls and, in minutes, he would have the customer doing everything we asked. It was amazing to watch him. People who did not know him but only heard the stories always wanted to know how he did it. The answer was simple, nothing complex. His success was due to him always putting everyone else first.

Watching John make sales calls was amazing. John would enter a customer’s office and the first thing he would do is engage every other person. He took the time to understand each person, so they took an interest in him. It was John who taught me the power of personal connection even in the most intense business environment. A thirty-minute meeting would extend to an hour, but the customer never complained. John had them engaged. The level of success our team of eight had went far beyond anything eight people should have been able to accomplish. Working for John taught me a major lesson:




Value other people more than yourself. Value their goals and aspirations more than your own.




It was nearly thirty years ago when I worked for John. To this day, I cannot walk into a major sales call or meeting without wondering how John would handle the call. I can still picture John on calls and what he would say after a meeting. He would be quick to say how sales and life is about accomplishing what did not seem possible. Our team may have been small but we played a big game.

In your role as a salesperson, who are the people you would say are on your team? Who are the customers? Who are the people in your company and who are others in your industry who support you? To answer this question objectively, you must ask, do they see you on their team?

My job as an author, consultant, and speaker has me dealing with a wide range of companies each year. In my role, I make it my primary objective to learn how I can help those who are helping me. I am very upfront with it too; I do not hesitate to ask people about their objectives. I do not lamely say, “Is there anything else I can help you with?” What I am talking about is asking people what issues they are facing. When I engage people personally and dive in to care about the issues they are facing, they respond. In turn, they share valuable information with me, and I am in a much better position to know how to serve them. Ready for this, I do this not only with my customers but even my prospects. There is no better way to turn them into customers than by knowing everything about them. Jill Konrath says, “Work with your prospects as if they were your customer already.” I freely say I am on her team.

Master Electronics is a company you have most likely never heard of before, but you own them. Many of the things you use each day have components in them supplied by Master Electronics. In the simplest of terms, they are a distributor of electronic components. It would be safe to say they work in a cost-challenged environment. A company working in this industry would be expected to cut costs everywhere possible. This is an industry that views a penny as still being too much.

Recently, I had the opportunity to speak to their leadership and top salespeople. I experienced a culture that defied the norms of their industry and the norms of business. The sales team they have encompasses everyone in the company. Everyone is supporting one another.

Yes, each person has titles and a job description, but nobody is beyond doing whatever is necessary. While touring their distribution center with a group of people, I found myself standing in their cafeteria. One of the people in our group went to use a vending machine. The machine would not work because he did not have the right type of vending card. Without missing a beat, an hourly employee from the warehouse came over and paid for what the guest wanted using her own card. The lady had no idea who we were, and it did not matter. She saw a need and took care of it immediately. I asked another employee, after the lady had left, if she paid for that herself and the answer was “yes.” Think about that for a moment—an hourly employee sees a need and steps in and takes care of it, no questions asked. She could easily have felt it would be somebody else’s responsibility, but she did not. She owned it. She owned the solution, literally.

Do things like this just happen? They do in a team culture with charismatic leaders. Riad Nizam, President of Master Electronics, is proud of the organization and, more importantly, the culture of the company. He is quick to say, “Creating a team culture does cost, but, in the end, it is money well spent.” The level of productivity, the level of service, and the level of success they have had is immense. They do it all in a brutally cost-challenged industry. They are the outlier because of their culture.

If you spend just ten minutes with Riad, you will find him to be charismatic, just like John Canavan. It does not matter to whom I speak in the company, each employee talks about the culture and the level of teamwork. Each employee has a job description for their position. Each person knows their ultimate responsibility is getting things done. The sales team is empowered to make decisions. They do not worry about being second-guessed by their manager. Every employee is on the sales team and so, too, are their customers and vendors. Teamwork happens due to a culture anchored by charismatic leadership.

Does this mean you have to be charismatic to be successful? No, but it sure makes creating bigger outcomes much easier! Make it your goal not just to drive a car but to drive a bus filled with people you are helping each day. As you help others, they will help you too. How do I define charisma?




Charisma is the combination of confidence, integrity, and concern for those around you, and communicating it with respect.




I have no idea how a dictionary would define it and, quite frankly, I do not care. I am more about living a charismatic life that helps others. How a dictionary defines it will not change me. Kordell Norton is a friend and also known as “America’s Charisma Consultant.” Kordell defines charisma this way: “Charisma is not determined by an individual but is assigned by others.” Think for a moment about Kordell’s definition. Charisma is assigned—to me, this means earned. It comes down to one thing, a proven interest in the other person. Make it your goal today and every day to be putting others first. You will be amazed at what you will be able to achieve. You will be amazed at who joins your team. You will be more amazed at the impact and influence you have in helping others.





CHAPTER 10

Being Passionate About Sales Is What Your Customers Expect





“Sales are contingent upon the attitude of the salesman—not the attitude of the prospect.” —W. CLEMENT STONE





BEING PASSIONATE ABOUT something is not creepy. Being passionate about something is a badge of honor to be worn proudly. I am passionate about sales but also about my wife, my children, the nonprofits I am involved with, and my faith. Being passionate means you care and are committed.

How passionate are you about sales? How passionate are you about your customers? Are you more passionate about things or people? I admit, I am passionate about coffee but not nearly at the same level as I am passionate about my wife. Being passionate about something means you care at a deeper level than normal. I know people who are passionate fans of a music group, a team, or their community. I love it! Being passionate about something means you value it.

When I speak or work with a group of salespeople or leaders, somebody will make a comment about how passionate I am. Being passionate allows me to connect with others on a deeper level and allows me to make better decisions. Some will challenge me that being passionate about sales and customers is not a positive trait. One conversation in particular sticks out far more than others. A top-performing salesperson for the company I was working with challenged me by stating that being passionate in sales will work against you. This person’s argument was this: when you are passionate about sales and the customers, you will not think objectively and too often take the customer’s side of things. He went onto say, “Passion will destroy you in a negotiation because you will cave.” This point of view is valid, if you do not place bumpers on your passion. The “bumpers” must include not giving away the farm just because you want to help a customer that does not have the financial resources. I describe passion as showing your commitment with your emotions but in a controllable manner. Remember, it is about integrity, and you cannot have integrity if you give away things based solely on your passion. Passion is built on top of a solid foundation of integrity, not the other way around.

The same applies to sleep. When I am passionate and excited, it is amazing how little sleep I need. I am not discounting the value of sleep; it is incredibly important to your health and mental well-being. But passion can be a powerful drug. Passion, and the excitement it creates, can help you power through the presentation you are building in the wee hours of the morning to prepare for your sales call later in the day.

Passion is a fuel that drives our energy meter. The more passion we have, the more energetic we are. The more energetic we are with our customers, the more they see our passion. Energy is a by-product of passion. I routinely fly to Asia or Europe to deliver a keynote and turn around and come right back. People ask me how I deal with the time difference and I always say it comes down to one thing—my passion to help others. This passion in turn gives me energy to power through whatever the time difference or the number of hours spent in the air.

Your customers expect you to be passionate. In years past, it may not have been a requirement. As expectations around customer service have increased, so have expectations around passion. Customers have options; they know it, you know it. Unless you break through in a manner others don’t, there is no way you will be successful.

Passion means you care and are willing to tie your emotions into it while, with the knowledge you have, keeping your emotions from spinning out of control. When a customer sees you are passionate about helping them, it is amazing to what lengths they will go to share their needs. The more you care, the more they share. To me, there is nothing better.

My drive to make a difference in the lives around me is what gets me out of bed each morning. If your passion meter is low, take a few minutes to think through the impact you have had on others. Think about those you have helped not just in sales but in life. When you begin to realize all the good you’ve helped others achieve, you cannot help but get excited. Phil Graef, as the manager of the McDonalds I worked at when I was 16, made a huge impact on me. I like to think he created a legacy in my mind. It’s hard for me not to think of how Phil would handle a situation when I find myself in a similar situation many years later. Phil created a legacy and it leaves me wondering, in whom am I creating a legacy today?

Tim Jackson, CEO and President of the Colorado Auto Dealers Association, sits at the intersection of passion and energy. Tim and I first met years ago when he asked me to speak at one of his events, and we have remained friends ever since. What I love about Tim is his passion for what he does and the automobile dealers he supports. The man is tireless in his commitment at every level. His passion to serve and make a difference fuels his energy. There have been more than a few times when I emailed him at 4:30 a.m. and he responded immediately. I asked Tim to elaborate more about living at the intersection of passion and energy and what it does for him. Check out what he shared with me:



Mondays are ‘fun days’ for me. But then, every day is a fun day. . . . If you like what you do, you never work a day in your life. I truly look forward to Mondays. I can’t wait to get back in the saddle and get down to work. I view Mondays as a chance to recalibrate and set up for the work week. I view everything I do in my office and on the job as a chance to be productive. Everything, for me, is all about productivity.

If I can get to my desk an hour before everyone else in the office, I have 60 minutes more of productivity than if I arrive at the same time as everyone else. Compound that thought. If I can arrive two hours before everyone else, or before the office opens, I get 120 minutes of a head start on productivity. I think it is important to lead by example, and to lead from in front versus leading from behind.

Now compound the thought of productivity on Monday to every day of the week. That’s what I do. I try to arrive at the desk one to two hours earlier than the next earliest person into the office. And I stay that much (one or two hours) later when possible. Some of my most productive hours are those when I am in the office before or after the first arrival or the last departure. I can be productive at my pace, on my needs and on my priority list. That creates a whole lot more productivity and makes Mondays, and indeed every day, even more fun than they already are.



Tim clearly loves his work and life because he is passionate about everything he does, and it translates into his incredible stamina. I will challenge anyone to spend two days with Tim, mirroring his schedule, and not find yourself exhausted. To him, it is not work; it is what he is called to do, and he loves doing it every day. His passion and energy is what fuels him to positively impact others every day.

Who are the people you have impacted? This is not about being egotistical and flaunting how great we are. Not even close. It is about being genuinely passionate, knowing long-term you will become to somebody else who Phil Graef is to me. If this idea does not get you excited, then something must be wrong. Life is about people connecting with people. It is about being the positive impact on someone else. It is about making a difference for not just a day, a month or even a year but rather a lifetime. Thank you, Phil Graef, for being the legacy I needed to have. I trust, because of your example, I will in turn be able demonstrate the same leadership legacy to someone else.





SECTION II


Your Greatest Assets





“Good, better, best. Never let it rest.

’Til your good is better and your better is best.”

—ST. JEROME





CHAPTER 11

Your Three Greatest Assets: Your Time, Your Mind, Your Network





“You begin by always expecting good things to happen.” —TOM HOPKINS





YOU HAVE PROBABLY heard the moniker, “Oracle of Omaha.” Yes, I do live in Omaha. No, that is not me—it is a reference to Warren Buffett. He is routinely ranked as one of the wealthiest people in the world, not bad for a guy who makes his home in the same town as I do. Gotta love Omaha.

My dilemma is, Warren has something on me. Although I live in the same town as Warren, he has managed to do quite a bit better than I have at managing money. Warren has a very simple strategy to what he does. He is superb at managing his time, growing his mind, and creating value with his network.

Your three greatest assets are your time, your mind, and your network. The more effectively we manage these three, the more success we will achieve and the more excited we will be for Monday and every day of the week. Warren Buffett is proud of the time he keeps open on his calendar free of meetings. He believes strongly in keeping large blocks of time on his calendar open. This does not mean he is kicking back and doing nothing but counting his money, no. It means he is working on growing his mind. He states he will spend as much as 80 percent of his day reading. He advocates the value of reading 500 pages per day. For Warren, this is a key part of his ability to accumulate knowledge. He views knowledge as an asset that compounds. He believes knowledge is no different than money; both are assets you want to have working for you as they compound their value each year.

Another reason Warren keeps major blocks of time open on his calendar is to be ready for opportunities whenever they arise. He claims having open blocks of time on his calendar allows him to think and take phone calls any time from people he values in his network. Isn’t this interesting? Warren, one of the wealthiest men in the entire world, wants to make himself available for his network. He knows the value of his network is in the conversations and what comes out of them. The man is brilliant. He controls his time to allow him to both sharpen his mind and help his network. No wonder, as he says, “I tap dance to work each day.” Warren Buffett is the poster child of the person who loves Monday and is excited for it. I would venture to say he gets excited not only about Monday but about every day.

Let’s look more closely at the impact Warren has on those he comes in contact with. Think for a moment: how would you feel if you just had a conversation with him? Do not lie. You would feel awesome just to spend time on the phone with the person who may be the greatest investor of all time. Regardless of how the rest of your day went, you would likely feel on top of the world because of your conversation with Warren. My hunch is you would start processing every decision you had to make the rest of the day and for weeks to come by thinking, how Warren would handle it? To put it bluntly, Warren would have impacted you. He impacted you because he mastered time, mind, and network and made it available to you. If you are serious about making Mondays and every day fantastic, you need to become a student of protecting your time, growing your mind, and leveraging your network.

To help measure how well you do each day with your time, mind and network, I will challenge you to ask yourself these three questions at the end of each day:



1.What did I learn?

2.Whom did I help?

3.How will what I did today help me make tomorrow even better?



Ask yourself these three questions each day as a way of holding yourself accountable. I have yet to meet a person who is excited to get going each day who is not also excited about improving themselves and others.

There is an amazing by-product that will come out of you focusing on your time, mind, and network. Your actions will rub off on others. Soon, others in your network will be just as focused on their time and mind as you are. As they begin demonstrating success with their time, mind, and network, the impact continues to grow. Your actions will wind up creating success in others—far beyond your reach.

Anthony Iannarino, who wrote the foreword for this book, is the epitome of mastering mind, time, and network. Anthony and I have been good friends for years; we first met through an introduction by a person we both respect, Jill Konrath. Jill is a master connector of people and giver of her time. Both of us had known Jill for some time, and she knew introducing the two of us would be beneficial. It sure has been just that. You might say Anthony and I are friends because of the mutual network we created.

Over the years, I have watched and learned from Anthony and would think he would say the same about me. To say I am not better off for knowing Anthony would be an understatement. He is a master learner, brutal with managing his time, and yet incredibly giving to his network. I share this about Anthony because we do become like those we associate with the most. When our parents told us as children to be careful about who we associate with, they were on to something. It still very much applies to us as adults. For me, the ability to associate with Anthony and see how he uses his time, mind, and network has helped me. Your goal is to find your, “Anthony,” with whom you can associate. Remember the old adage, a rising tide lifts all boats.





CHAPTER 12

Protecting Your Time—Discipline Is a Virtue





“Either you run the day or the day runs you.” —JIM ROHN





REGARDLESS OF WHO we are, where we live, or the resources we have, none of us can change a simple fact—there are only twenty-four hours in a day. We can try every trick, but the fact remains. There are only twenty-four hours in a day.

Flashing back in my life, I still remember making this statement, “If I could just figure out a way to not have to sleep, I could get more done.” The comment was made while standing in the kitchen of our best friends, Paul and Cindy Korman. It was Sunday evening, and we were all commenting about the crazy week starting in just a few hours. I mentioned my goal was to need no sleep, so I could accomplish everything I wanted to in life. I went off on a rant. If I didn’t need any sleep, I would have more time, leading to more success in sales. The glare I got from Cindy was stronger than anything my wife could produce. Cindy turned to my wife and asked if she had just heard what I said? Without missing a beat, my wife replied, “He never thinks he has enough time.” Let’s just say, my comment was not soon forgotten. Cindy would routinely bring it up when I saw her. I wish I could say Cindy changed my behavior, but she did not. For years, my life was about cheating sleep and making do with four to five hours a night.

The only thing cheating sleep taught me was how to let work expand to the amount of time I wanted to give it. When I was much younger (and dumber) I was proud of how little sleep I required; to me, it was a badge of honor. My thinking was, “There is no way anyone can be a success unless they can master life on only a few hours of sleep every night.”

Mastering your time is not about minimizing sleep. Mastering time is about getting the most out of time. We do not have a time management problem; we have a priority management problem. I am always impressed with the person who gets far more done than what seems possible and does it effortlessly.

We all know people who can be busy all day and at the end of the day have nothing to show for it. Salespeople can be very prone to this habit of simply going through the motions with little regard to the impact they are making. The fallacy believed by many salespeople and especially the underperformers is this: if they just do enough of something, they will be successful. Nothing can be farther from the truth. Activity by itself is only going to do one thing—make you tired. To drive this point home in my sales training programs, I typically share an example of a person swimming in the ocean who begins to struggle when they see a shark. The swimmer begins to flail their arms and legs in the water, which the shark sees as weak prey. The more the person thrashes about in the water, the more the shark is drawn to them. There is a lot of action, but the result is certainly not what the swimmer wants.

The swimmer-and-shark example might seem extreme and a little shocking, but sometimes the only way we create change is by shocking our thinking. Never assume activity will equal results. The question you need to ask yourself, minimally once a day if not multiple times per day, is if what you just spent time working on made a difference with a customer or helped you achieve your goals.

Early in the book, I shared that I am an early riser. I am up between 4:15 and 4:45 a.m. every day, and the first couple of hours are my most productive. The only reason they are productive is because I planned out what I would spend my time on, and I stick to it. I will be the first to admit, when I was on a mission to not sleep, I was not an early riser. To me, it was far better to burn the midnight oil until 3 a.m. I may have thought I was productive, but all I was doing was thinking I was productive. In reality, I was just busy (and tired) until the wee hours of the morning.

Let me introduce you to Bob. He is a great salesperson, but one area Bob struggles with is getting up before 8 a.m. He told me he tried to follow my lead and get up at 6:00 a.m., which was rough for him. After a few weeks, he gave up the idea and went back to getting up much later. I asked him what his experience was like and he said it was a waste of time. The reason was simple. He was not prepared for what he was going to do. It comes down to one thing, being prepared to leverage your time and make all the time you have into quality time. Unless you have a plan, getting up early is a waste of valuable sleep.

You may beg to differ, but I strongly believe early risers are more productive and more successful. My suspicion is 90 percent of those reading this book are early risers and after reading, you will be getting up even earlier. You will be more motivated. The word motivated is the key to getting up early. If you are motivated, you will want to get up early to take advantage of the day. But enough about getting up early. Let me break down the key to controlling your time.

Here are six guiding questions you need to ask yourself when planning for your day:



1.What will I do today that will truly make an impact?

2.Is what I intend to do going to move me closer to achieving my goals?

3.How will what I do today help my customers?

4.What will I do today that will warrant me being paid?

5.How much of my time today will be spent with customers?

6.What can I do differently or stop doing that will free up more time?



Write these six questions down and keep them where you can be continually reminded of them. Your key is to never forget: the only way we will get more out of our time is by planning how we intend to spend our time.

Planning your day is just one element. We also need to review our day. It is too easy to feel the day was productive because we are exhausted from the activities of the day, but that does not get us anywhere. At the end of each day, ask yourself the same six questions you ask to plan the day. Better yet, break your day into smaller segments and evaluate each one with a simple question: “Did I generate a profit for my company?” It does not matter for whom you work or what you do. Your goal is to generate more value than what you get paid. I am self-employed and, trust me, I ask myself that question multiple times each day.

The most motivated people, the ones who are truly excited for Monday morning, know the importance of these six questions. Time is a wonderful asset, and time has been dispersed evenly to every person. Our only decision is how will we choose to use or lose our time.





CHAPTER 13

Building Your Mind





“You are today who you’ll be in five years except for the people you meet and the books you read.” —CHARLIE “TREMENDOUS” JONES





REMEMBER YOUR FINAL year in college and how you thought, “If only I knew walking onto campus for the first time what I now know as a senior!” How much easier college would have been. Looking back on my college years, I cannot help but laugh over the things I got stressed out about as a newly minted freshman that I totally ignored as a senior. Such is life. With each passing year, we gain knowledge. The question is, how valuable is the knowledge and what do we do with it?

Earlier, I wrote about how Warren Buffett spends hours each day reading. Over the years, I have had the privilege to attend the annual shareholders meeting for his company, Berkshire Hathaway. If you have not attended one, you need to. If you have, you will know the entire gathering is an educational event. For six hours, Warren and Charlie Munger, vice chairman of the company, answer questions on any subject. The knowledge the two of them share is amazing; each year I come away with multiple pages of notes. Yes, the insights and knowledge they share is mind-boggling, but when you realize the level of reading they do each day, year in and year out, then it makes more sense.

How much are you reading? A simple idea to keep in mind is you do not need to read until you are the ultimate expert on any given subject. A great goal would be to read enough to hold an intelligent conversation with another person. To achieve this level of knowledge is not hard; it merely means being disciplined to always be learning. One of the most enjoyable things I get to do in my global travels speaking to sales leaders and teams is taking part in so many diverse conversations. Thanks to the steady level of reading I do and my commitment to learning, I will often have people ask me how long I have worked in their industry. To me, that question is an honor because it means I understand their industry. When you are meeting with customers, your goal is to have them ask you the same question. This is not about arrogance. It is about being someone who understands the situation others are having to deal with. To me, this is what sales is all about—understanding the other person.

You may not be in a physical school, but each day you are in the school of life. If you are like most people, you may say reading is something you have little time to do during your day or week. I understand the argument. There are so many other things that need to be done, the idea of sitting down and reading a book can seem impossible. If the issue is a lack of time, I will argue it is a lack of priorities and how you choose to spend your time. Go back and read the preceding chapter on time management again if you are saying you do not have time to read.

If you are like most salespeople, you are selling to a wide range of people or companies. Each interaction brings up new discussion topics; each one is an opportunity for you to learn and share. This is the moment of payoff. Are you able to hold your own in these types of conversations? For me, this is one of the most enjoyable parts about sales, the ability to learn from others. This type of learning is compounded when I am able to be at least somewhat knowledgeable about the subject. When I am able to ask a question or add a relevant comment, the other person naturally elevates the conversation because they realize I am familiar with the topic. Remember, sales is about two parties having confidence in one another. Sharing knowledge is a key part of the process.

Your mind is also what drives you. Gerhard Gschwandtner, founder and CEO of Selling Power, Inc. is one of my good friends. Mutual connections in our respective network helped us get connected, but it is our mutual interest in learning that keeps our bond strong. Gerhard has done extensive work studying salespeople and what they do. We have spent many hours discussing how our mindset impacts how we sell. I will let Gerhard’s research on how the mind impacts your selling speak for itself:



With the right mindset, you’ll approach your territory with gratitude, your customers with a commitment to delivering value. Neuroscience tells us that the prefrontal cortex is where your “Inner CEO” is located. It is your inner CEO that is in control of the mindset operating system. If you were to study a brain scan of an average salesperson, you’d see that certain regions of the brain are not activated. Their minds run in “automatic” mode. They are unaware that they can control how their mindset operates. They don’t know how to transform their inner critic into an inner champion. They are unaware that happy salespeople sell 38 percent more. They are unaware that people with a positive mindset live on average 7.5 years longer. They are not familiar with the mindset tools that can empower them to reach no-limit goals.



I give Gerhard credit for pushing me to write this book. He and I are closely aligned in how our mental state drives our sales performance. This is why I say:




The most difficult sale we make is to ourselves.




If you fail to believe, you can rest assured your customer will too! What we believe can be influenced too quickly by outside events unless we have a solid belief system. Sales is not for the faint of heart for one reason: the faint of heart are also faint of mind. They are not fixated on the mission at hand. When we get the mind right, it is amazing how many other things fall into place. Now you see why it is so important to ensure Mondays are the best they can be. As Monday goes, so goes your mind for Tuesday through Friday.





CHAPTER 14

Your Network Is Your Best Investment





“You are the average of the five people you spend the most time with.” —JIM ROHN





WHO ARE THE five people in your life who have the most impact on you and from whom you learn the most? The bigger question to ask is, who are the five people you have the privilege to impact and help teach the most? The greatest privilege we have in life is the ability to impact and help others in a manner that allows them to achieve a higher level of success. If this does not excite you, then something may be wrong with your goals and values. I will be blunt in asking, why are you in sales?

“If you want to go fast, go alone. If you want to go far, go together.” I cannot say enough about the value of this African proverb. There is a line I use often which plays off this:




Sales is not a solo activity. Sales is a team sport.




When I say “team,” I don’t mean only you and the customer; I mean you and everyone else with whom you come in contact. We were not meant to do anything alone. Even in the stone age, the entire village would go out and hunt. I laugh, but even in the first book of the Bible we read, “It is not good for the man to be alone. I will make a helper suitable for him” (Genesis 2:18; New International Version). There is something to this idea of being with others.

We do better when we are aligned with others, and it is why your network is such a valuable asset. Your network is what drives who you are—this is why I have the quote from Jim Rohn at the beginning of this chapter. If I were to ask you to list everyone you feel is in your network, how many people could you come up with? What would you say is the reason you listed each person?

There are three levels of networks you need to have. First is your core group—I will call these the ones you mastermind with and to whom you are accountable. Second is a larger group you draw on regularly for expertise, as they draw on you. I refer to these as subject-matter experts. Third are those you influence and who in turn influence you. I refer to this as your network triangle.





THE POWER OF A MASTERMIND GROUP



Take any tree and you will see it made up of limbs, each one growing and contributing to the health of the tree. Cut off a limb and it soon dies; the limb was not meant to be separated from the tree. This is how you need to view a mastermind group. View the group as a tree with each member a limb. The symbol of a tree for a mastermind group is appropriate because each person is there to support one another. As each person becomes stronger, the collective strength grows, much like a tree trunk. I cannot stress enough the value of a mastermind group.

Too many salespeople view themselves as being so confident they do not need anyone to share ideas with or hold them accountable. I argue this is the very reason why you need a group. Why would anyone not want to tap into the wisdom of others? Why would anyone not want someone giving them an encouraging word? Why would anyone not want the satisfaction of helping someone through an issue, in the process gaining knowledge they can use?

Your objective is to find three to four other people you trust, people with whom you can share ideas. Whether you meet formally or merely interact via text and phone, you need these people. I am part of several mastermind groups. None of them officially meets more than twice a year, but we exchange notes regularly. Each person in the group knows I am there to share ideas. Knowing I am accountable to the others is what makes it work.

Accountability is key to any mastermind group. Without it, there is little chance for trust and integrity to be present. Sam Silverstein has been called the most trusted voice on accountability, and I believe it. Sam believes accountability is the result of a deep relationship. The deeper the relationship, the more accountable people will be. Sam believes it is no different than in sales. Relationships are built on trust and confidence, and the payout is mutual accountability.

The validation point and key to determine whether someone can be in a mastermind group, is knowing each other’s goals. The ability to share goals, knowing you have help, is huge. Knowing you are helping others and their goals is motivating.

Let me introduce to you the members of one of my mastermind groups: Mike Weinberg, Anthony Iannarino, and Jeb Blount. These are names you may recognize, as each one has written multiple great books on sales. Not a day goes by that we are not supporting one another. Just today, I have traded text messages with Mike regarding our kids. Jeb and I have exchanged notes on a video. And the day is still young. I am sure Anthony will share a note soon as well.




SUBJECT-MATTER EXPERTS



Recently I was speaking to a group of business owners at an industry event and I challenged them to have a network of twenty-five people they can both learn from and help. These individuals would be their subject-matter experts. As I stated this, I could see blank stares on the faces of many of the people in the room. After the meeting, several people came up to share how eye-opening it was to be to have a network of twenty-five subject-matter experts. I was challenging them to create a network of people they could learn from and share ideas with. I pushed them to have people in their network who were smarter than they were and would have divergent views on things. Most of all, I challenged them to have people in their network who were authentic, integrity-centered, goal-driven and seen as a leader in whatever it is they do. If you will be spending time with others, it makes sense to spend it with those who you will benefit and who in turn will benefit you.

When I take people through this exercise, it is rare to have anyone complete the list. Most people struggle just to list ten people. This might be you today, but do not stop! Learn. Get to know others and their goals to see if they should become a subject-matter expert for you. Sales is a team sport, and I count it a pleasure to have both salespeople and non-salespeople in my network.





PEOPLE OF INFLUENCE



This is the foundation of your network. People in this group may, over time, move up to become subject-matter experts. Those who are subject-matter experts can in time become part of your mastermind. In each of the three masterminds I am a part of, each member started off as a person of influence.

Bob Burg, coauthor of the Go-Giver book series, is a master networker. He takes the concept of being surrounded by people of influence to a new level. He takes the idea of networking and puts it on steroids! Best of all, he does it with ease. You cannot spend time with Bob, whether in person, the phone, or via social media, without recognizing that he is totally focused on you.

Bob has three tips he loves to share regarding networking and creating your people-of-influence circle:



1.Networking is the cultivating of mutually beneficial, give and take (or, more accurately, give and receive), win/win relationships.

2.All things being equal, people will do business with, and refer business to, those people they know, like, and trust.

3.If the average person has 250 people in their sphere of influence, then every time you cultivate a relationship with one new person to the point where that person knows you, likes you, trusts you, wants to see you succeed, wants to help you find new business, wants to be your ‘personal walking ambassador’ . . . every time you do this with one new person you’ve just increased your personal sphere of influence by a potential 250 people, every single time.



Look at Bob’s third point and the idea of each person having 250 people in their circle. I will run the math for you. If you have 250 people in your sphere of influence and each of them have 250, then your reach is 62,500 people. I hope this causes you to sit up, take note and let something settle into your mind. You have the potential to be impacted and at the same time impact far more people than you realize.

Who will you learn from today? Who will you help to learn something new today? Each person you spend time with today is another learning opportunity. Let me leave you with this thought: The value of your network will determine the value of your net worth.





CHAPTER 15

Sales Is Not a Solo Activity. It’s a Team Sport.





“If you are not moving closer to what you want in sales (or in life), you probably aren’t doing enough asking.” —JACK CANFIELD





WE ALL LIKE to think we are smarter than we really are. I contend the smart people are those who know they are not the smartest. The smartest people are those who know the best way to succeed is by surrounding themselves with people smarter than themselves. I love the popular aphorism, “If you are the smartest person in the room then you are in the wrong room.” I strongly believe sales is not a solo activity. Rather, sales is a team sport. Who is on your team? Or maybe I should ask, what sport are you playing?





SALES IS NOT BOWLING



Sales is not bowling! Bowling is very much an individual sport. It is you and a bowling ball at one end and ten standing pins at the other. Your objective is to roll the ball in a manner that will take out as many pins as possible. Unfortunately, I see too many salespeople approaching sales as if it were bowling. It is them standing on one end with the product in their hand and customers at the other end. The objective for them is to jam the product down the customer’s throat with such force it knocks them over.




Sales is not bowling. Your customers are not pins to be knocked over.




It is time to hang up the bowling shoes and ditch the retro bowling shirts. Game over! You might think this type of selling does not exist anymore because it went away with the VCR. Do not kid yourself, it lives on like the computer virus you cannot delete. It is very much alive and well. Remember last quarter when you were chasing a number and you were pushing hard to make sales? That was bowling in the tenth frame!

Your sales team is comprised of both your customers and people in your company and industry. Take your biggest accounts and ask yourself how many strong connections you have? My bet is, it is not enough! It never ceases to amaze me the number of times a salesperson has lost a major account because their main contact moved on long ago. There is no reason for this to happen. The only reason it happens is because we allow it. The customer is on your team, and you need to know the players. Your objective is to develop relationships before you need them. When something goes wrong, that is not the time to be contacting a person you have never met. One way to determine the number of relationships you should have is by using revenue as a reference point.

Here’s an example:



Your annual sales: $4,000,000



Total customers: 30



Average sales per customer: $133,000



For every $133,000 in revenue you should have ONE strong relationship.



Using this number, it would mean your customer doing $1,000,000 in sales should have eight relationships. The objective is to ensure the right level of focus is being placed against all accounts. There will always be exceptions, but this formula will give you guidance. Companies who use this approach will often add significant incremental revenue to the number. The idea here is to ensure they build the relationships now to capitalize on opportunities to create more value and sales.

You can build your team even more by having others in your company developing relationships too. Too many salespeople are protective of their accounts and as a result, wind up never maximizing the account. Bringing others into the account broadens the conversations and allows for more learning. The strength of an account manager’s relationship with an account is seen when they find out about opportunities. The account manager who finds out about new opportunities at the same time as their competitor does not have a strong relationship with the account.




LET YOUR SALES MANAGER RIDE SHOTGUN



Anyone can see the priorities of a sales manager when they are spending time with customers. Too often, customer visits are made at quarter- or year-end when the race is on to close a big deal. Big mistake! It is pretty hard to develop a deep relationship when the focus is on a single order. Sales managers and other senior managers need to be in front of the customer at the beginning of the year. I like the beginning of the year for one reason. It is when the conversations are going to be more strategic and revealing. The objective for the sales manager is to uncover new opportunities as they develop a deeper relationship.

A year ago, I was working with a large chemical company, and we put a plan in place to get sales managers in front of customers. All of the account managers were instructed to take their manager with them on first-quarter customers calls. The results were outstanding, as several new major opportunities were uncovered. The learning from these meetings gave the account managers a significant lead over their competitors. None of this would have happened if the sales managers had not been out front in visiting customers.

Brent Pohlman, CEO and president of Midwest Laboratories, understands the value of multiple relationships. He views it as his role to be in front of customers having conversations and working to find solutions. It is not uncommon for Brent and his Chief Client Experience Officer, Dana Burkey, to be in the same customer meeting. Dana is quick to reference how good her sales team is, but everyone knows having the CEO involved will enhance the conversation. You do not have to talk to either of them for very long to see how well they operate as a team. Customers see this too, and the result has been new opportunities. A week rarely goes by that Brent does not let me know of a major new opportunity he has uncovered. The more meetings he has, the more valuable each meeting becomes because of the learning. The value is not just to his company but to the customers. With his focus on customers, his company is seen as being at the forefront of their industry.

Great salespeople do not try to make all the decisions. I have always said, “The person who is willing to involve others and benefit from others will win.” They will win because they have created a bigger team. Who can you add to your team? What relationships do you need to work on?




WHAT DO YOU KNOW ABOUT YOUR CUSTOMER’S CUSTOMERS?



The owner and CEO of a manufacturing company in Xiamen, China, once served me tea. Along with the tea, we had a fascinating conversation about his company. He told me how the company began and shared details about every type of product he made. He was incredibly proud of what his company made. He insisted I look at every page of his company’s product catalogs. Naturally, I was interested in who his customers were, so I asked him to whom he sold his products. Without missing a beat, he gave me a one-word answer, “exporters.” He assumed the question was answered and he showed me another product catalog. I stopped him and asked if he would explain more about who his customers were, and again he blurted out, “exporters,” this time in a louder voice. I presumed he thought I did not hear him the first time.

Still curious, I asked, “Whom do these exporters sell to?” I was met with a blank stare on his face. The owner did not know. The only thing he knew was that he sold everything he made to exporters and that was it. I left his office with my head spinning, not from the tea but from the conversation. I was blown away. The owner and CEO of a manufacturing company that employed thousands did not know who used what he made.

The situation I just shared was from China. It just as easily could have been from a conversation in Los Angeles, Miami, or any other city. Too many people are clueless about where their product goes after it has been sold. They are equally clueless as to how people benefit from what they sell. If you are passionate about how you help others, it should be baked into your sales DNA to want to know everything.

When was the last time you followed whatever it is you sell all the way through? If your customers are so important to you, I would think you would want to know everything you can. Knowing everything about them does not stop with just them. It extends downstream to who they support and who they sell to. Regardless of who your customer is and what they do, they, too, have a customer they are taking care of on a daily basis.

Never allow yourself to fall for the line, “There is nothing to learn from talking to others.” Whether it be other employees in the company or other customers, there is information to learn. Timid salespeople will not seek to learn more. You are not timid. You know there is information to be learned. Information is power. If you see yourself as a sales leader then you owe it to yourself to gain insight about your customers. You owe it to your customer to know every element about what happens. This includes not just what you sell but everything about the customer, too.

List your five biggest customers and start writing everything you know about to whom they sell. Follow the same process with the individual you work with at each customer. Who are their customers? To whom do they report and work with? It is an amazing exercise. If you are like most salespeople, you will find large holes revealing you do not know as much as you thought you did.

After you have listed everything you know, it is time to fill in the gaps and go even deeper. Build a 90-day plan of who you need to meet with and the questions you need to ask. This exercise is one that will do two things for you: First, the person you are selling to will hold you in higher regard because you are proactively learning. Second, as you gain insights, there will be a high probability you will uncover new opportunities you can help them with.




INFORMATION LEADS TO MORE INFORMATION



Understanding who everyone’s customers are allows you to use this information to gain more information. One of the best ways to deepen a relationship with a customer is by sending them insights on their customers. Recently, I was having lunch with a CEO and he shared with me how they had just signed a contract with a new customer. My work in his industry meant I was always paying attention to what was happening and as he said the name of the customer, I responded with an update he was not aware of yet. The customer his company would now be selling to had just received negative news from the financial community. I conveyed what I knew. He was appreciative and immediately informed his CFO, who investigated further. In the end, the CEO appreciated my insight and they were able to take appropriate action. Although the CEO was my customer, I still made it a point to understand their customers.

One of the fastest ways to gain a response from a senior-level person in a company you sell to is by sending them an email with a link to a newsworthy story about one of their customers. Doing it when the story is still breaking allows you to be seen as someone who is watching out for them. This is a technique I stress not only for anyone in sales to do but also for senior executives as a way to stay in touch and deepen a relationship with executives at other companies.

The technique of sending links like this to senior-level individuals and others is a great weekend strategy. CEOs and others near the CEO are time-challenged during the week, but on the weekend I have found they do not disengage from email. The weekend is the time they are not working in the business but instead are working on the business. This means they have more time to read and dig into issues of interest. Your email with a link to a relevant article about one of their customers could be the perfect message to vault you up to being seen as key asset.

When you forward a news link, be sure to summarize and add your commentary. This means you begin with two or three quick statements that summarize the article. Follow this with two or three quick statements about why you feel it is important. Your statements may also include a question or two for them to think about. Adding these summary points will allow them to see you have done your homework. You’re not just somebody forwarding a link; you are a peer sending them key information. The other benefit to you adding a summary and comments is there are many senior-level people who will never open a link in the hopes to avoid any risk for malware breaching their network. By providing them the summary comments, you will allow them to benefit from what you sent without opening the link.

This technique will generate a high degree of success. I use this approach frequently to deepen relationships with senior-level people. Others whom I have shared this with have been amazed at the interaction they have created. There is no limit to the number of ways you can use this approach both to open new doors and to strengthen existing relationships.

Having insights on your customer’s customer is priceless if you are selling to a department that is intimately engaged with their customer. When you can be in a conversation with them and be seen as one who understands who their customer is, your life will change. They will see you more as a peer or partner than merely a vendor. Nothing will excite you more than to be talking to your customer and to have them ask you for your insights on their customer. When you reach this point, you have made it, because they will be seeing your input as valuable information.

Now you can see, the more you sell to a specific industry or segment, the easier it will be for you to learn about the downstream customer. For those of you who are fortunate to sell only to one specific industry, there is no excuse for you not to know as much about your customer’s customers as they do. Your objective is to learn it and then use it. Information creates information. Information creates opportunities. Opportunities create value. Value creates sales.




PURCHASING DEPARTMENTS ARE NOT THE EVIL EMPIRE



If you are forced to deal with purchasing departments, this exercise will dramatically shift how you interact with them. The worst thing we can do is allow purchasing to become a gatekeeper that blocks you from doing your job. They may view you as a vendor, but it is your job to defy that stereotype.

The purchasing agent you are working with has customers too. They might be internal or they might be external. I am amazed at how many times even purchasing agents lack basic knowledge about what they buy, how it is used, and where it goes after they sign off on the purchase order. Such people are typically overworked and buried just trying to keep their own heads above water. Their knowledge about how what they are buying is used can be minimal at best. This is your opportunity to be seen as an expert to them. Their department policy may dictate that you not have interactions with anyone else in the company, but that cannot stop you.

Failing to know who your procurement agent’s customers are will mean you are a low-price supplier. If you care, you will push past any rules to gain the insights you need. Purchasing agents are typically responsible for specific areas. Each area has its own set of managers and objectives. Additional customers a purchasing agent may have can be people from finance to warehousing. Remember, purchasing agents are really supply chain managers. This means they have numerous people they need to keep satisfied. For the purchasing agent who has to also contend with outside customers, it means there are still more people they are having to keep happy.

If you work with purchasing departments, are you able to identify who their customers are and what the objectives each one of these customers have?




INQUIRING MINDS NEED TO KNOW



These are questions I find helpful as I work with purchasing departments:



1.What are the key issues you face in managing your supply chain?

2.What are your objectives for inventory turn and cash management?

3.Do you have order fulfillment or invoice accuracy objectives?

4.What is the mission of your department and what are the annual goals?

5.What are the key metrics you must achieve?



You are thinking I must be crazy for asking these questions. You are right. I am crazy mad to help them! I have asked professional buyers these questions hundreds of times in countless industries. Nobody ever threw me out, and only twice can I say people got really upset at me for asking. Yes, I had some who responded with harsh comments, claiming that information was none of my business. Many times, I was met with a polite response telling me they were not allowed to say. Surprisingly enough, I did frequently get answers and it completely changed the relationship. Regardless of whether I got the answer or was met with a firm, “no,” it still changed their view of me. With my willingness to ask those questions, they knew my role was not just another vendor selling on price. Go ahead, start asking. You have nothing to lose.

The information you learn from these or similar questions will open other doors for you. When the purchasing department sees you in this way, they will start being receptive to other requests. Your job is to make it easy for them, and you do that by understanding who they need to take care of each day.

Salespeople are quick to say how purchasing people spend all day having to negotiate and beat up salespeople. Trust me, that is the easy part of their day. The tough part is when they have to tell a key manager their request for something is denied because it was too expensive or some other reason. The more you know who these players are, the more you can be in a position to help them.





SECTION III


Minefields and Mind Traps





“Software is a gas; it expands to fill its container.”

—NATHAN MYHRVOLD





CHAPTER 16

Apps and Hacks Don’t Control You. You Control Them.





“Technology is a useful servant but a dangerous master.” —CHRISTIAN LOUS LANCE





SNAKE OIL HAS merged with the shiny object, and it is sucking people into the world of apps and hacks in the form of sales enablement programs. The snake oil comes in shiny colors via emails and social media posts. Reading what these “solutions” provide can leave you drooling. Soon you will question what took you so long to find the holy grail of sales success. I did not realize my sales skills were so deficient and the only way to correct them was to buy a particular SaaS (software as a service) solution. The amount of money being spent on SaaS systems that never realize even 50 percent of their potential is a travesty. What it comes down to is this: people are easily convinced the problems they have can be solved by a piece of software. Does this sound similar to all the weight-loss commercials that advocate some quick solution?

My beef is twofold. First, too many times, these sales productivity tools have been created to solve a problem that does not even exist. Read that last sentence again and let it sink in for a moment. Second, there is no such thing as a universal solution. My advice to anyone tempted to buy a solution to their problem: save the money, first look inside yourself and ask, why? Many times, the solution you are looking for is not to be found in a tool. The solution lies in a modification of your own behavior. Unless the sales enablement tool you are about to buy can deliver an electric shock or inflict physical pain on you, then it is still up to you to use it. The number of SaaS systems purchased but never used is appalling. I have to laugh because it says these companies have awesome sales and marketing teams. They are great at selling dreams. Many of the most productive sales teams and salespeople I find are ones that operate with a minimal number of SaaS solutions. The shiny object they are dangling in front of your face is not really a solution to solve all your problems—it’s simply a shiny object.

If you do buy a SaaS program, do not blame the program when you fail to see your sales increase. It does not matter what the tool is or what it claims to do. It is still your tool, and it is up to you to do something with it. I have spent more days and weeks than I care to count helping sales teams unhinge themselves from some cloud-based sales enablement tool. What they thought would be a solution only wound up creating a far bigger problem. To protect the innocent and the guilty as charged, I will refrain from mentioning company names, but one company in particular stands out. Their salespeople were not productive and everyone knew it, so management was on a mission to find a solution. Management felt the lack of productivity was due to a lack of tools. They spent big bucks researching, buying, customizing, and implementing their holy grail. They were so excited they even had a big sales meeting to roll out the solution. The solution, in the eyes of management, would finally make the sales team productive. Six months after the roll-out meeting, they called me. Sales were in the tank, the sales force was even less productive, and the VP of Sales was about to be fired. Management, including the VP of Sales, had thought they had the solution figured out. They felt the problem would be solved with a robust set of sales-enablement tools. The tools only added to the problem. The people were the problem and, to be blunt, it was the management team who was most at fault. Management had created a toxic environment. To say the sales team was not motivated would be incorrect. The sales team was motivated, as they were doing whatever possible to find a different job, and they were leaving fast.

The sales team was not productive for multiple reasons, but the biggest issue was the organizational process and new SaaS solutions used by the company. A very highly regarded consulting firm worked with management to create this process. To be fair, I do not think it was 100 percent the fault of the consulting company. Knowing the management team, I think the consulting group was set up to fail. The consulting firm merely took the easy approach and built the system to fit management’s needs. My bet is, the management team used the consulting group to design a process to hide their own inadequacies.

Nobody in the field understood what they were to be working on, which resulted in everyone going in different directions. To be fair, this problem existed even before the new systems were put in place. The only thing the new system did was expose the problem even more. The most glaring issue was management, including the VP of Sales, being completely removed from the real world. Nobody should have been surprised business was in the tank. If not for the majority owner demanding they bring me in, I wonder what might have happened. The only reason I was able to stay is because of the demands of the majority owner. You are correct in thinking I was not warmly received by management. This company’s situation was not abnormal. Far too often, people think the solution to their problem will be corrected by buying a system.

You cannot expect an app or software system to correct organizational or personal problems. I am not against SaaS solutions but rather the level of expectations and hostage-holding salespeople find themselves in when using them. Think about this for a moment, which one of the following will put you in the Sales Champions Club to spend a week in Hawaii?



A. Being an expert in knowing how to use “X” software

B. Blowing past your sales quota



The answer is obviously, “B,” but I know some of you are freaking out. You are screaming at me, “Mark! I must use the system and if I do not use it, I will be fired!” Calm down. I get it. I have been there, too. This does not mean you allow the system to dictate your life. You are smart, and your software is never going to make a sale on its own—that is your job.




Apps and hacks do not make you accountable, only you can do that.




Yes, I could not resist sharing one more blunt truth.

This problem is not just with companies. I have had hundreds of calls from solo salespeople who bought a solution that wound up being 100x more powerful than what they needed. They got sucked into the vortex of software updates trying to find a way to justify their purchase.

If you are in a position to determine whether to invest in a program, ask one brutal question: “Will this help me if it only delivers 20 percent of the results they claim it will?” Brutal? Yes, because you and I have yet to see any software solution that does not make bold claims. I can point back to the early personal computer that claimed there would be no need for paper. The last time I looked, I still see a lot of paper being used. Performance claims are just that, claims. I need results. The term vaporware is still alive and well.

Great salespeople are not driven by sales apps and hacks. No, great sales people drive the app and hack to do what they want it to do.





CHAPTER 17

Social Selling Is Neither Social Nor Selling





“The computer was born to solve problems that did not exist before.” —BILL GATES





SOCIAL SELLING is neither social nor selling! It is time to take the phrase and park it on a MySpace account or in an AOL chat room and let it rot. The concept of social media sites being the harmonious intersection of buyer and seller is a joke. Why are there people who insist on trying to sell to me every time I am on LinkedIn? Their messages are blatant ads screaming for me to buy. The worst part is these individuals have not made one attempt to get to know me. Clearly, they do not know what the definition of social is, and then again, I doubt they care.

Social media is a shiny object just like the sun. Stare at the sun too long and you go blind; the same is true with social media! People have been led to believe the only way to sell is via social sites. Hey, I like social media, but it is not the silver bullet for sales. This platform will not solve your sales issues. It also will not cure the common cold, prevent starvation, or eliminate cholera. It’s just not going to happen!

The pitch I hear being screamed at me and everyone else is how the world has changed and you cannot rely on the telephone or any of the other sales methods that used to work. The pitch continues by saying how everybody is on social media and by embracing social selling you will have all the customers you can handle. This is what I call a “blanket statement”—something so broad it covers everything. I will be blunt one more time. Do not go making “blanket statements” unless you are selling blankets.

Too many salespeople spend valuable time and money thinking they will turn their business around by getting active on a particular social media site. This fallacious thinking may sound something along the lines of, “If I am really active in posting content and commenting, life will be good!” They also spend hours creating a perfect profile creating a persona that likely does not match reality. The idea is, if they do enough on social media, people will want to buy from them. This thinking is no different than high school kids thinking some new clothes will suddenly get them the attention they are craving. The kid might feel great for a day or even a week, but within a couple of weeks, the clothes are old and buried on the bedroom floor under a mass of other clothes that failed to deliver on their promises to make them more successful in the eyes of others. One more blunt truth:




You cannot take clicks and likes to the bank!




The internet has a long tail. Do not think you can short-circuit social media and have something go viral.




CLICKS AND LIKES ARE A VIRUS IN YOUR MIND



Your post will not suddenly create 1,000 new friends and 5,000 views. It is not going to happen. Even if you were to gain 1,000 new friends, you would not be inundated with new customers. I am not saying social media does not have a role to play in sales. What I am saying—be careful. It is called “world wide web” for a reason. There are a lot of people out on the world wide web, but are they the people you are looking for?

Social media gurus will have you believe everyone is on LinkedIn. The total number of people with online profiles on just LinkedIn is well over 500 million. Yes, that is a lot, but who cares? I do not! There could be 2 billion on LinkedIn and I still would not care. What matters is that the people I want to reach are there.

What you are selling and what I am selling is not something 500 million are going to buy. Do not get starry eyed by the number. Unless you are selling water or toilet paper, most of those people are not your audience. Stop and think about who the active users are on a site like LinkedIn. Just because you are on it daily does not mean everyone else is doing the same thing. The big groups on LinkedIn are HR and recruiters, people looking for a job, and salespeople. These groups make up a huge part of the active users. To prove my point, go out on LinkedIn and see who is showing up in your feed. Most likely, they will be people in one of these categories.

Before you go ballistic on me about how good LinkedIn is, let me share more. Like you, I have plenty of CEOs, senior-level people, and others I am connected to on LinkedIn. Yes, they have a profile on LinkedIn, but it does not mean they spend much time on it. They might check LinkedIn once a month, when they are bored. They do not have time to be active on LinkedIn. My point is this, I will use LinkedIn to gather insights. I will use it to create a long-term connection. I am not going to use it as my mass-prospecting or sales tool to generate sales today.

The hype behind social selling, I believe, came from salespeople trying to sell to other salespeople. Since most salespeople do not like having to prospect, they are open to alternative solutions. From the distaste of doing what is necessary comes the idea you can use social media to do everything for you. Spend ten minutes on social media and you will be convinced you are doomed in sales unless you buy somebody’s social media program. There are dozens out there all claiming to make your life perfect. I am waiting for somebody to come out with a social selling program that is a pill you take once a day.

Yes, I am being harsh, but I am tired of people taking advantage of salespeople. Too many salespeople are not willing to do the work required. The work is having one-to-one conversations with real people. They would rather hide behind cute pictures, memes, posts, and the like. With so many salespeople struggling, it makes them susceptible to buy into the message that social selling is the solution. This message is pounded into them because they are spending too much time on social media instead of prospecting. Before long, they have bought the idea of what I call the “if-then” game.




THE “IF-THEN” GAME



This game is played out all the time by the salesperson believing, if they just buy a certain program, then they will have a full pipeline. Bad idea! The reason salespeople and entire companies fall for this social media game is because they are scared. They are scared to do what they need to do and that is to pick up the phone and engage the prospect!

Social media does not replace the telephone. The power of social media is when it is used in conjunction with the telephone. Your objective is to take online connections and turn them into offline conversations. Using social media to do research is great but do not forget, buyer beware! Information on social media sites is put there by the user and updated by the user. Is the user going to post negative information about themselves? No. The Senior VP at Global Widgets who is suddenly active on LinkedIn may get you thinking they would be a perfect customer. What you do not know is they are active because they just lost their job at Global Widgets. Just because you keep your profile current does not mean everyone else is doing the same.

Internet search guru Sam Richter and I work very closely together because he is a master at finding information about leads using the internet in ways that go far beyond social media. Buyers need to beware especially when it comes to bold claims people may post online. If you work with wood, you have heard the line “measure twice and cut once.” The same can be said about social media information. If it is a claim, verify it. Sam Richter has a tool he calls the Sales Intel Engine, and in just a few clicks the site will reveal amazing information. Go ahead, do a search on Sam and see what you find.

Prospecting is about using all the tools available. This means social media and the telephone. If you are struggling with how to use the telephone, I suggest you read my book High-Profit Prospecting. There are several chapters devoted to the art of the call.





CHAPTER 18

What Your CRM Is Not Telling You





“We have to stop optimizing for programmers and start optimizing for users.” —JEFF ATWOOD





IF I HAD a dollar for every salesperson who cannot stand the Customer Relationship Management (CRM) system they have to use, I would not be writing this book. I would be writing a book about how I became a billionaire, one dollar at a time. This chapter is not about trashing CRM systems. There is no value in running around bashing things. The only thing that happens when you run around bashing something is you become negative. As you know by now, that is not what this book is about, and it is certainly not what I am about.

Zero good will come from you harping about the time you spend maintaining your CRM system. I want to flip the conversation and share what you can be doing to make your CRM work for you. I will, however, use this chapter to call out a few examples of bad behavior management. I want to give you hope in knowing you are not alone in dealing with challenges.

A project was first presented to me as a simple consulting project to be owned by the CFO of a publicly traded company. First up was a meeting with the CFO who would provide the details. The project was designed to help with a CRM system the sales force was using that had cost three million dollars to install. Since installation, it was now eating up another one million dollars a year to keep it running. Since he was the champion of the project, he was adamant this would be a great investment and not an expense. My mission, as he saw it, was to create enough ways for the sales force to use the CRM system. The sole purpose of my job was to ensure it would be a smart investment.

Clearly, the sales team had not received the CFO’s memo. To them, the system was a debacle and complete waste of resources in time and money. My conclusion was very close to the same. Since I am an optimist, I did see some redeeming qualities that would provide a little value. The biggest reason for the debacle is how the project came to be. The idea of putting a new CRM in place was the brainchild of Finance and HR. They saw it as a way to control costs and monitor personnel operating in numerous countries. Sales was never involved in determining the overall scope of the project. Only after contracts were signed and the proclamation made in a quarterly call to investors did sales become involved.

The sales force was very quick to pick up how the data in the system was being used against them. To the sales force, it became something they complained about nonstop. This sales force already operated in a highly regulated industry that limited a lot of things they could do. To the sales force, this was another sales prevention tool.

While working with various sales teams, I began to see what they were really doing. Salespeople and entire teams were loading the CRM with bogus data knowing senior management would only be looking at the top-line macro reports. Multiple divisions went as far as building their own secret CRM systems. Do not think for a moment this type of behavior does not happen elsewhere. Trust me, it does. Salespeople will always look for the easy way out when it comes to reporting.

Your goal with whatever CRM system you use is to not use it to bluff management. Do not use it as an excuse for why you need more “admin time.” Most of all, do not use it as an excuse as to why you do not have more time to sell. Use your CRM system for what it is, a proactive tool to manage your time going forward. The example I shared did not turn out well. The system was ultimately scrapped and replaced with a much simpler CRM that sales controlled.

My complaint about CRM systems is their focus is on reporting activity that has already occurred. These systems are designed to help you with individual customers, but that leaves a big gap. You want your CRM system to help you with leading indicators. Think of how much more confident you would be if you had all the insights you have ever learned from numerous customers logged by industry. You would be able to identify the key things you are hearing in a concise manner. To have the information by industry or customer type would be a huge benefit for you. Your confidence factor would increase any time you speak to anyone.

The same goes for the key outcomes and benefits customer gain. Currently, I am working with a large company that sells to four distinct types of customers. In meetings with the sales teams, we have built out a complete list of customer outcomes by industry and customer type. The benefit is that the salespeople are now able to focus much more tightly on each customer type. Results to date have been huge for one reason—the salespeople feel far more confident.

Leading indicators include such things as looking at buying behavior across industries. Your objective in your CRM system is to establish industry sections to allow you to park all of this content by industry or channel. In doing so, it will allow you to turn your CRM into a source of leading information and not just past behavior.

There are forward-thinking people who love to say the answer to the CRM problem lies in having a Cash, Price, Quote (CPQ) solution. The argument is, with a CPQ tool, the sales team will now have a forward-thinking system they can rely on. It is easy to think this would be the case, but I am hesitant to run with thinking the way to fix one solution is by adding another. Yes, a good CPQ system will allow a CRM and Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) tool to work better, but again, this is theory. Let me throw out that word one more time, “vaporware.” We have heard bold claims made many times before. Until nirvana arrives in the form of the perfect CPQ, which I am not holding my breath for, we are stuck dealing with CRMs.

One of the smartest salespeople I ever met was Alan. He was smart because he was incredibly lazy. He sold temporary staffing services to multiple industries in a tight geographic area. Alan was not one to work any more than possible, and he hated the company’s CRM system. His zeal to be lazy meant he only entered the bare minimum data into the CRM system. He entered just enough data to keep from being fired.

What made Alan smart was his notebook, divided by industry, where he kept every piece of information he had learned. Each industry tab also had a calendar where he recorded when customers were most likely to need labor. In the notebook, he also kept a list of industry URLs he could reference for more information. The notebook was his bible. There would be many weeks or months he would only work a specific industry. He knew to do this based on what his notebook was telling him. He optimized his time and was proud to say he worked this way because he was lazy. The way he spoke about being lazy drove everyone including management crazy, but nobody did more business than Alan.

Alan’s commitment to being lazy pushed him to focus on his leading indicators. While working with him one day, I asked why he did not have all of this on his computer to make things even easier. “I’ve been doing it this way for years; I’m too lazy to switch now.” Priceless!





CHAPTER 19

Quit Thinking Marketing Will Get You Leads





“Don’t find customers for your products, find products for your customers.” —SETH GODIN





SALES AND MARKETING exist so everyone has someone to blame when something goes wrong. Yes, that is an old line we can all laugh about. The problem is many organizations still use it each quarter as their excuse for poor performance. It is time we quit blaming someone else and be the ones to take full responsibility.

We have to remember the mindset of marketing—they operate in the big picture world of large audiences. In sales, we operate with smaller audiences. This difference alone is hard for many marketing and salespeople to accept. In every company there are marketing people who think they are salespeople. In those same companies reside salespeople who are nothing more than frustrated marketing people. It is time to get over it and move on. You do not have time to spend it complaining! You do not have time to try to reinvent marketing. The same goes for you in marketing—quit thinking you know sales better than sales does.

Rarely do I work with a sales team without someone bringing up marketing and all the things that are wrong with them. Left unchecked, these conversations can spin out of control. The only thing that makes these conversations even worse is when the sales manager starts jumping on the bandwagon. It is at this point you would begin thinking marketing is a disease in search of a vaccine. The cries include eliminating marketing and giving the money and headcount to sales. Cut it out! Stop it! You have as much chance of winning that battle as you do winning the lottery, or creating that vaccine.




BLAMING MARKETING IS A ZERO-SUM GAME



Rather than blame marketing, accept them for who they are and realize they are merely doing their job. This is where I throw responsibility back onto sales. What are you doing to help educate marketing about what works best for you?

Without turning this into a marketing book, let me say this: the one thing marketing does best is they create awareness. The fact that so many marketing teams believe it is their primary job to generate perfect leads is a joke. Yes, I said joke. Think about this for a moment. Your job in sales is to close sales. The only way you will make your quota, get paid, and keep your job, is by making sales. The only way you will ever have customers you can close is if you have prospects, which begins with leads. If you tie your success back to the leads you get, I would hope you would want to own that part of the process.

The lead generation process is broken and it seems only the top sales performers got the memo the process is broken. Since many marketing teams place a high priority on generating leads, to them it is a numbers game. The more leads they generate, the better they feel they are doing their job. In a later chapter, I will share with you why more leads work against you, but you will just have to wait for that. Quit expecting others to do your job.

Nobody is saying to reject leads given to you by marketing. Even top-performing salespeople are not going to turn down leads given to them. The difference is they know the leads they get on their own will be better. They know in the end it is their responsibility for what they achieve and what they do not achieve.

Look at the leads you currently have. Where did they come from? Are you keeping track of each sale you make and how it came to be? I am amazed at the number of salespeople who do not closely track the value of leads with regards to their ability to close. Failing to understand the source and value of your leads is saying you do not care about your success.

The salesperson who has junky leads, regardless of where they came from, is going to become quickly demotivated. Conversely, the salesperson who believes in their leads and how they came to be, is going to be much more motivated. When you understand and own the process of generating leads, you become a rainmaker instead of a rain barrel.





ARE YOU A RAINMAKER OR A RAIN BARREL?



What does a rain barrel do? The sole job of a rain barrel is to collect the rain that falls into it. What is the role of a rainmaker? The role is to go out and make it rain. You are in sales. This means you need to be a rainmaker, and it is your job to go get leads you can turn into customers. Let marketing be the rain barrel with their online promotions and advertising gathering leads that fall into the barrel.

Sales people in general are always struggling for good opportunities they can close. If this is the case, then it makes sense for them to step up their rainmaking activity. There is little chance you will ever have the quality of leads you need if you do nothing but rely on marketing’s rain barrel mentality.

While working with an industrial sales team, I came across two salespeople who were able to close sales faster than anyone else on the team. These two were able to accomplish in one or two sales calls what was taking others five or six. Naturally, their success caught my eye, and I asked what they were doing. Both gave me the same response: it was their ability to work with marketing.

These two sales professionals spent time developing relationships with their marketing department and partnered to create their own set of sales materials and lead sources. With the salespeople selling industrial products, having materials that were tailored to their needs was a big deal for the leads they were working with. I asked how long it took for all of this to happen and again, both said two days. For two days, the salespeople had marketing people travel with them to customers. As soon as the marketing person joined in customer meetings, they could experience firsthand what a sales call was like. An amazing thing happened. They were now on the same bus.

How much time do you spend with marketing people helping them understand what you do? How much time do you spend with marketing understanding what they do? Arguing and complaining about each other is stupid. More often than not, we have not taken time to educate and learn from one another. Too many times, the only interaction sales and marketing have is at the annual sales kickoff meeting. If this is what is happening in your company, you need to step up and take the lead. Reach out to marketing right now and ask for a meeting with one intention—to learn more about their goals and what they do day-to-day. The same rule applies for marketing; their need to understand your goals and processes is vital. Go one step further than just telling them. Reach out, call a customer, and schedule a meeting for you and your marketing partner to attend together.

If the relationship is bad with marketing and there is little chance you can get them out with you, then shift gears. View marketing the same way you would a new lead or prospect. It is time to sit down and listen to them by asking questions. Your goal is to have them as an ally. You do not have the time or the energy to fight battles inside your company. The only battles you want to fight are in the marketplace taking customers away from your competitors.




WHO DOES MARKETING REPORT TO?



In my fifteen plus years working for three global companies, I had the privilege to work in both sales and marketing. Yes, I spent far more years in sales than marketing, but trust me when I say I have marketing scars. In one role, I used to joke the only way to survive and hope to get promoted was by upsetting as few people as possible. Even today in my consulting assignments, I get to sit up close to marketing. My respect for marketing is strong, but I adamantly believe in what I am about to say. Marketing needs to report to sales. Shocked? I suspect you are. The only exception to this is if the company is in a mass-marketed, consumer-focused industry. Those are the only companies where marketing should stand alone. Business-to-business (B2B) focused companies are sales driven; it is about the salesperson making it happen. Since sales is what makes the sale happen, then it makes sense for marketing to report to sales.





CHAPTER 20

Sales Is Not a Numbers Game. Sales Is a Quality Game.





“What differentiates sellers today is their ability to bring fresh ideas.” —JILL KONRATH





IS SALES A numbers game, or is it about quality? This age-old question will always trigger arguments among salespeople. I am tired of this question for one reason: I do not care about the numbers! You can have the biggest number of anything and still not have anything unless you have paying customers.




UNPLUG YOUR SCOREBOARD



Salespeople are into keeping score. Then again, I would say everyone is into keeping score. The challenge is, what are you keeping score on? Just because you can count it, doesn’t mean it is worth counting. I see way too many salespeople tracking numbers that mean nothing. They are so fixated on looking at their numbers, they become obsessed with them. This is a key reason why I do not like having numbers around social media activities. Nothing can create a bigger distraction than being obsessed with measuring social media.

It is time to unplug your scoreboard. If you cannot at least do that, may I suggest you trade it in for something smaller? To the people with desires to have a scoreboard that has bigger numbers than anyone else, I say who cares! The only number that matters is the number of satisfied customers you create and their lifetime value. Sales is not a numbers game; it is a quality game.

The same can be said about leads. Do not forget, not all leads are even worthy of being called a lead. Leads have to earn their way to becoming prospects. The sooner you qualify a lead, the better off you are. Leads have zero value because, most likely, you know very little about them. Once a lead earns their way to becoming a prospect, they have to earn their way to becoming customers. The most valuable asset I have is my time. I cannot waste my time on somebody who is not going to buy or minimally lead me to somebody who will buy.

Waking up in the morning knowing you have great opportunities because you have quality in your pipeline sure makes the day go better. You cannot allow yourself to be held hostage by numbers that will distort how you use your time. I just watched a company get bought out because of one thing: the CEO was playing a numbers game. The CEO was adamant all salespeople would make thirty prospecting calls and have four introductory in-person meetings per day. The CEO believed this was the key to being able to close a minimum of eight deals per month. This sounds logical, but then again so does world peace. This CEO was so adamant about the objective, failing to achieve the objective was grounds for termination. What shocked me is the CEO’s focus on this single objective. The number the CEO should have been looking at was the turnover on the sales team. Nobody could achieve the objective due to the complexity of what they were selling. Even the best prospect still required five to six meetings to get a contract. Run the numbers and you will see they could not maintain the pace of thirty new calls and four introductory meetings per day. Those two activities alone left little time to do everything else to move a customer forward. Know the impact the numbers you are measuring have on the business. This company is now part of a larger company. The measurement the sales team is charged with now is—Customer-Facing Time.




CUSTOMER-FACING TIME



Customer-Facing Time (CFT) is a number you want to measure. This is a quality number because of what you are doing. You are interacting with a customer of some type. CFT includes such things as face-to-face meetings, telephone calls, or email when used to actively work with the customer. CFT is not thinking about a customer, and it is not doing research on leads. It is not even entering data on a customer into your CRM system. CFT is about being belly-to-belly, voice-to-voice, brain-to-brain with them.

What your CFT number says is a lot about how successful you are. I use the number a lot when working with teams to understand how much of their time they are prospecting. In my book, High-Profit Prospecting, I heavily blast a number of sales myths. One needs to be called out again. The myth is: Salespeople will prospect when they have taken care of everything else. This myth has held far too many salespeople back from ever making quota. You must make time to prospect.

Prospecting does not happen on its own. When I work with teams and we are discussing CFT, I ask them to break it into two categories. One category is CFT with existing customers, the day-to-day routine of taking care of current customers. And the other is CFT with prospects, leads and those who have not yet bought. I encourage you to start tracking both categories of your CFT—it will tell you a lot very quickly.

Tracking both categories is essential. There are a lot of underperforming salespeople who spend a lot of time with customers; I will say they spend too much time. Their CFT number for existing accounts is off the chart, but the prospecting number is close to zero. So what is the right number? It depends on what you sell, your industry, and a host of other things. A good foundation to start with is this: the prospecting CFT should never be less than 15 percent of total CFT. I have yet to meet an aggressive, enthused salesperson who is not prospecting on a regular basis!

I cannot stress the importance of your CFT number enough. A low CFT number indicates too much non-selling activity. Increase your CFT, and you will increase your sales.




DON’T BE A SPREADSHEET JOCKEY



Pity the salesperson who works for the sales manager who spends their entire day building and updating spreadsheets. I am calling out sales managers, but there are quite a few salespeople who are riding their own spreadsheet horse. People like this believe their world can be summed up in the numbers they are tracking. They subscribe to the saying, “Numbers do not lie.” Show me a person who spends their day tracking numbers and I will tell you what they are spending their time on. This issue is a major problem with distributors, dealers, sales agents, and the companies they represent. These companies will have a manager in some remote location charged with managing the sales function. These remote spreadsheet jockeys feel if they focus on the numbers, everything will be just fine. I cannot begin to tell you the number of stories I hear from distributors and others about the games they will play to make the numbers look good.

You do not have time for games if you are passionate about sales. Your customers do not have time for these games. Passionate and committed salespeople are not going to stick around working for a spreadsheet jockey manager. The sad comment is the spreadsheet jockey manager or salesperson is not helping the sales profession no matter what they might think. My one comment is, “Stop!” You might think it is cutting-edge and sophisticated to track numbers. If you want to play with numbers, head to the horse track and bet on your horse while on the way to becoming an accountant, but please quit masquerading as a sales leader.

It is phenomenal how numbers on a spreadsheet can be vastly different from what is actually happening. It is time to dismount, tie up the spreadsheet, and get out and see what is really happening. Sales is beautiful when it is people talking to people.





CHAPTER 21

Your Pipeline Needs To Be a Water Faucet, Not a Sewer Pipe





“You don’t need a big close as many sales reps believe. You risk losing your customer when you save all the good stuff for the end. Keep the customer actively involved throughout your presentation, and watch your results improve.” —HARVEY MACKAY





THERE IS A reason why this chapter follows the preceding chapter. The reason is simple. Sales is not a numbers game but a quality game. Too many sales pipelines are plugged up with stuff that is not going anywhere. Putting it bluntly, they are nothing more than a sewer pipe, and for that matter, a clogged sewer pipe. If you put more into a clogged pipe, the only thing you do is create a bigger mess. This is what far too many salespeople have; a giant, backed-up sales pipeline. If you get close enough to it, you will find it even smells.




DO YOU NEED A PLUNGER FOR YOUR PIPELINE?



It is time we break out the plunger and unplug that sewer pipe. Quit kidding yourself. You cannot manage the two hundred business cards you got last week at a trade show on top of the one hundred you already have. You can also forget the idea that the 346 email addresses you got two years ago but have never touched are somehow still great prospects. There are multiple reasons why a pipeline gets plugged. Most often it comes down to one of two reasons: The first is the sense of security you get when you see your pipeline full of opportunities. Secondly, a full pipeline is what management demands.

Pipelines get stuck at any number of locations, but we will keep it simple and say the top, middle, and bottom. The very top gets clogged due to too many leads and the belief they are all prospects. In the middle, it can get jammed up with prospects that have stalled out and are not responding anymore. And finally, the bottom can become blocked when the offer is on the table but you just can’t close the deal. It does not matter where your pipeline is getting plugged, the result is still the same. Nothing is moving the way it should. And as a result, you are not using your time in the best possible manner. Here is another hard truth when it comes to prospecting and your pipeline:




When it comes to prospecting, do not start what you cannot finish.




If you cannot manage the two hundred business cards you got at the trade show, then do not waste your time starting. You can only have in your pipeline what you have the potential to manage. Go ahead and put them into a marketing campaign, but do not waste your time on all two hundred. You do not have enough time in the day to nurture two hundred leads all at once.

A few years ago, I was called in to work with a company that relied on outbound activity to generate sales. The sales manager had been under incredible heat from senior management to increase sales. He was told to put in place a plan that would deliver the needed sales or risk losing his job. What resulted was the sales manager developing a plan that had each salesperson responsible for calling one hundred new leads each day. This was in addition to being responsible for nurturing everything they currently had in their pipelines all the way through to close. The best person could make one hundred calls in four to six hours. You do not need to be a wizard with time management to know there is little ability to see the system breaking down quickly. The ability to manage every other phase of the pipeline was not possible. Do not start what you cannot finish! It is not a hard concept to understand, except when you are under pressure to deliver impossible results.

This top-heavy sales pipeline was a disaster. Within two weeks of the sales manager putting in place his plan, two of the seven salespeople had quit. The morale and closing ratio of the other five was in the basement. My job was to build a new plan and get it in place quickly. The first move I made was to drop the number of outbound calls from one hundred per day to twenty. This one change now gave the team enough time to manage what was in their pipeline with enough time to follow up. In six weeks, the sales numbers turned around, and sales were back on track. The sales team now had more time to spend with fewer people in their pipeline. Less does become more when there is focus.

The race to have more leads in a pipeline will always wind up creating too many balls to balance and results in the rest of the pipeline becoming plugged too. Whenever I am working with a company, I look to see the percent of deals that require a discounted price or some sort of special offer to close. Comparing this percent to industry norms can reveal a glaring issue. Most people believe discounting is due to poor negotiating or poor closing skills. I contend this is not typically the issue but instead is bad prospecting. If you start out with the wrong prospect, then you are going to have a difficult time closing them at full price. What happens is, you keep trying to find a way to move the customer along but it is too difficult because you started with the wrong prospect.




YOU CAN’T TURN A WALMART SHOPPER INTO A NORDSTROM CUSTOMER



Both retailers, Walmart and Nordstrom, are great in their respective retail segments, but they appeal to different types of shoppers. Both retailers know their perfect customer and how to reach them. Walmart is very discount-focused and Nordstrom is high-end customer–centric. They do not waste time chasing the other retailers’ customers. You need to do the same; know who your perfect customer is and go after them. If the lead is not consistent in at least a few areas, do not waste your time on them.

Leads must earn the right to be in your pipeline. Just because somebody filled out an online form or did something else does not make them a qualified prospect. At this lead stage, they are nothing more than a heartbeat. A heartbeat does not make a customer. My dog has a heartbeat and I know my dog Kramer will never buy anything from me. This is where you have to be assertive in asking questions. The sooner you qualify the lead, the better off you will be.

Weak salespeople lacking confidence in how they help customers are the ones who fail at qualifying leads the most. When you are sold on your ability to help others and make a difference, you are more confident in asking tough questions. Confident salespeople also know the lead they are talking to is not their only lead. You must be willing to remove people from your pipeline if they are not going to be a prudent use of your time.

There are some key questions to ask yourself regarding any opportunity in your pipeline and whether it belongs there:



1.What firm evidence do I have that this opportunity is moving forward in a timely manner?

2.Is the opportunity sizeable enough to warrant my time?

3.Do I know the barriers I need to remove in order to close this opportunity?

4.Is this an opportunity that will generate sales for me at a later date?

5.Do I have a plan to maximize this opportunity without negatively impacting other opportunities that offer greater potential?



Yes, they are tough questions to answer. You cannot afford to have suspect leads in your pipeline that are not going anywhere. Your goal is simple—to be able to spend more time with fewer prospects.




FEWER PROSPECTS, MORE TIME



The idea of having fewer prospects is one that runs counter to what many sales managers desire. Case in point being the sales manager I described earlier in this chapter. There are three pipeline measurements I care about: the number of leads that close, the percent of discount needed to close, and the speed with which they close. I will talk more about speed in the next chapter. Right now, we will deal with just the first two.

When you start out with the right prospect and spend enough time with them to understand what their needs are, you will have the ability to close deals with little to no altering of price. If I cannot spend enough time with a prospect, I will not know what their critical needs are. Sure, I might have a sense, but I will not be able to validate it. The deeper I probe with a prospect, the better the position I will be in to truly know what the key issues are. This takes time—time I will have only if I am not having to chase everything under the sun because it is in my pipeline.

If you start the day off knowing your focus is on digging deep with a prospect to truly help them, who would not be excited? Conversely, if you begin your day knowing your challenge is juggling too many low-value opportunities, you will be stressed. Which would you rather have, a pipeline that looks like a sewer pipe, or one that resembles a water faucet?





SECTION IV


Don’t Let Your Customers Control Your Mind





“I am not a product of my circumstances. I am a product of my decisions.”

—STEPHEN COVEY





CHAPTER 22

Speed Sells. Simplify the Process.





“Nothing is particularly hard if you divide it into small jobs.” —HENRY FORD





NEWS FLASH: NOBODY cares about the history of your company or how great you claim to be. Truth be known, your children do not care. Even your own mother may not care. Why should I have to start off a chapter talking about selling fast by telling you to ditch the capabilities presentation? The reason is simple. You may have ditched it in hard copy, but you are still wasting valuable time on the phone blabbing about your great company. Your customers do not care. Have you listened to the voicemail messages you leave? This seems to be the area where the “capabilities presentation” makes a frequent appearance. I do not care how short your message is, it is not about you! People who are confident do not walk around telling others how great they are. Only those who lack confidence walk around telling others how great they are. Which one are you?

Multiple times in this book, I have stressed the value of time. In the same manner, you must grasp the value of your customer’s time. The faster you can close a sale, the more time you will have. It is a pretty simple concept, but there is more. The faster you sell, the more value you create for the customer by not taking up their time. This is not a license to leave out taking the time to understand the customer’s needs. It is also not a license to stop asking questions. The objective is for you to use as much of your time listening to the customer as possible.

Do you even know how long it takes someone to go from being a lead all the way through to paid customer? Over lunch, a regional VP of a large tech company confessed it takes new leads up to three days to get to the right salesperson. He shared how all website inquiries first go to their office in San Francisco. At that point, they begin a painful journey to the regional manager. The manager then assigns the lead to a salesperson. Finally, the salesperson makes the contact. If I am inquiring about something, I am not sticking around for three days waiting for an answer. This company had its own business prevention department and it was called “sales”! Government agencies are not even this slow.

Regardless of the length of time it takes to respond to any inquiry, you cannot be satisfied with it. Another piece of the puzzle is to know how many interactions it takes to turn a lead into a customer. Interactions might be telephone, email, face-to-face—it does not matter. Count them all, because each one takes time. Most sales teams can answer this question with some confidence. I ask these questions because they need to be trending down long-term.

Incoming leads from my company’s website are routed to my staff and also to me. I do this for one reason: speed. A year ago, I was waiting for my flight to board and an inbound lead came through from my website. It was from a VP of Sales inquiring about me speaking at their national sales meeting. Seeing the phone number in the inquiry, I immediately called. Within a minute of receiving the inquiry, I was speaking with the VP of Sales who, yes, was shocked. His first words were, “I just asked my assistant to send you an inquiry five minutes ago and here you are on the phone.” He went on to say how he did not expect to hear anything back from someone in my company for a few days. I jumped on his comment by reminding him, I did write the book High-Profit Prospecting. I told him I do eat my own dog food when it comes to prospecting. Even with my flight boarding, I was able to have a five-minute conversation about his company and their needs. Before I could even get on the flight, I had secured the engagement—and, yes, at full fee. Speed sells!

How fast can you respond, and how informed are you when you respond? Thanks to internet search tricks I learned from my business partner Sam Richter, I am able to uncover insights on any company, or anyone, in less than thirty seconds. Your goal is to be as focused as possible on specific industries, channels, geographic areas, or whatever you decide. The more focused you are, the more you will be able to understand your customers. I strongly suggest you check out Sam Richter and learn a few of his tricks. The better you understand the customer and their industry, the better the questions you will ask. Speed selling is all about speed knowledge. This means having questions that cut to the meat of the issue quickly.

If there is something I dislike about inbound leads, it is the risk that they will send you down a dark path. The dark path is a lead that comes from someone in an industry or demographic group you are not familiar with. It is dark because you do not know anything and spend valuable time doing a crash course on them and what they do. You end up spending your time chasing a lead that did not result in anything. For all your effort, you did not even receive new insights on a segment you are actively selling to. When you are being led down an unfamiliar path, be careful with your time. It can be tempting to spend an hour or more researching the company and industry. You are doing this because you do not know anything. You are afraid of looking stupid and you think an hour of research is all it will take. I am adamant about not spending more than one minute doing research before making the call. You cannot afford to waste time learning information about a dead-end opportunity.




THE QUICK PRICE QUOTE IS NOT QUICK



Another bad inbound lead is the one asking for a quick price on some item. The request is simple, they want a price and nothing else. Anyone who has been in sales for any length of time has dealt with this type of request. Do not think for a moment the quick price quote is speed selling—it might be speedy, but it is not selling. It is not selling because the person asking you for the quick price is not looking to buy. Well, I should say they are looking to buy, but not from you. Most likely they are just looking for a price to validate some other buying decision they are working on currently. Ask anyone in a purchasing department if he or she has used this technique and you will most likely be met with a smirk (not wanting to admit he or she has).

Your response to the quick price quote should be something like this, “Thank you for contacting us. We have a lot of options, and I would be afraid of giving you bad information. Let me ask you a few questions about what it is you are looking for.” You get the idea; the objective is not to give them a quick price but rather to validate their potential first. I am a strong believer in never giving out a price until you know you are dealing with a valid buyer and you know what the outcome is they are looking for.




LISTENING DOES NOT TAKE TIME



Speed selling is also about making it as easy as possible for the customer to share their needs and being flexible in meeting them. While working with a company based in Dubai, I realized very quickly that the market this company was selling into had changed. What worked a year ago was no longer successful. Sales were now taking three times as long to close. The cost of sales was skyrocketing, making the need for a price increase necessary. The decision was made to bring in a much simpler product to market and narrow the buying audience. It did not take long for sales to grow significantly. Customers could quickly see the value of the new product. What had been taking months to sell now came together in a few weeks. In the end, it was simple—make it simple because simple sells.

Speed sells when we put the customer and their needs first. The change the Dubai company made would never have been made without the intel the sales team was receiving from customers unwilling to buy the old product. This is a lesson in, “never discount information you learn from customers and others.” It may not be important now, but at a later point in time, it could be the perfect piece of information you need.





CHAPTER 23

Asking the Tough Questions





“Don’t spend your time answering the questions. Spend it questioning the answers.” —MARK HUNTER





DO YOU ASK your customers questions they cannot answer and you cannot answer? Think about that for a minute. Many salespeople love to ask customers questions they know the customer cannot answer. To them, this is how they show how smart they are by being able to answer the question. If you want my honest opinion, I think this strategy is stupid! That game has been played for years. Don’t think for a moment the customer is not up on the rules as to how it is played. This game was developed because sales people wanted to find a way to look smart. For the salesperson who was especially lacking confidence, they would take this game into extra innings on every sales call. To them, it was a masterful way to allow the customer to see how smart they were by making the customer look dumb. This strategy lacks integrity for yourself and the customer. There is a better way.




THE QUESTIONS YOU ASK REFLECT YOUR CONFIDENCE



When you are confident, you ask better questions. When the customer is confident, they ask better questions. An amazing thing happens when both parties are confident: there is a robust conversation. Your goal is to ask questions neither of you can answer—now this is a great conversation. Better yet, it can frequently lead to follow-up sales calls and more opportunities. It is also a great way to invite other people into the process. There is nothing better than having a discussion that automatically leads to another meeting. The insights and conversations will naturally move you that much closer to a sale.

The key to using this process is to be confident enough to allow the conversation to go wherever it needs to go. This means you also have to know when to bring a wandering conversation back on track. The best approach I have found is to let the conversation run wide open early on. Letting it run wide is a way to allow you to uncover incremental opportunities. As you move further through the sales process, you pull in the questions, keeping them more focused.

Too many salespeople are afraid to ask tough questions. Let me be frank, regardless of the question you ask, do not be afraid. You are not being asked to donate a kidney or attend a Justin Bieber concert. The sun will still come up in the morning. Ask the question! If you do not ask the questions you feel should be asked, do not complain if you never get the sale.




DO NOT FALL FOR THE “SEND ME SOME INFORMATION” TRAP



How do you handle a prospect who has no interest but lacks the confidence to tell you? This is a question I frequently ask salespeople in order to gauge their confidence. You know the comment. We have heard it hundreds of times. “Just send me some information, and I will get back to you.” As you read it, you have flashbacks of the numerous times you have heard it. To the salesperson lacking confidence, they dutifully respond to the request and send them information. They will pat themselves on the back for following up with them. Of course, they are too scared to call them, so they send a lame courtesy email that goes nowhere. The result is a waste of time, but the salesperson feels they did their job. I am amazed at the amount of time I can spend in a training session coaching people through a solution.

It does not matter if the customer asked for information. We do not have to give it to them without first finding out more information. This is where you need to ask questions and not be shy about it. You must challenge the prospect to find out minimally what their needs are. If they cannot articulate a little bit about their needs, then why would you want to give them information? When faced with the request for information, I start with broad questions about what their needs are and then ask another question based on whatever they shared. My objective is to earn the right to meet with the prospect again, not merely send them information.

My goal is simple: to take the customer’s request to just send them information and turn it into a conversation that sets up the next meeting. This is the fastest way to know if a prospect has potential or is wasting your time. Your most valuable asset is your time, and you cannot spend it chasing prospects who are too timid to tell you they are not interested.




SKIP THE PRESENTATION



You will never ask the tough question if you are hiding behind a presentation or a script. Time for another blunt truth:




The best sales presentation ever made is the sales presentation never given.




It is time to bury the presentation. You know, the one marketing spent hours creating and insists you use. Your customer will not miss it! Regardless of whether you are talking in person, via video, or on the phone, they do not want to see it. If they wanted a presentation, they could have gone to your website. Your customers want a conversation—they want their questions answered and they want to be challenged. You are not going to do this if you are working your way through a boring presentation. This applies to what salespeople love to call a “demonstration call.” Give me a break. The word demonstration is code for lecture. Congratulations, if this is what you do. Your lecture will give the customer a perfect time to take a nap.

Skipping the presentation does not mean you head into a sales call unprepared. No, it means you must prepare even more. Preparation is essential for whatever direction the conversation goes. You must know how you can help the customer and do it without having to rely on sales tools.

When you reach a level of confidence where the presentation is no longer needed, amazing things begin to happen. The customer gains trust and confidence in you, resulting in new insights. You find yourself creating bigger opportunities in less time. Best of all, you will be having fun, because what you are doing is having a conversation.




YOU ARE NOT YOUR CRAZY UNCLE OR WEIRD AUNT



At every phase of the sales process, your job is to bring to your customer insights specific to their needs. The conversation has to be two-way, and that means you must allow your personality to come through. Your personality, unless you are the crazy uncle or bizarre aunt every family has, is a major asset. Your personality will serve to relax people and allow for a more open conversation.

If somebody asks you a difficult question and personalities are on display, everyone is relaxed and nobody is going to feel threatened. On the other hand, if you are asked a tough question by someone you do not have a relationship with, it will come across as threatening. Start the very first interaction with a lead by letting your personality shine through; it is critical to the relationship! One of the best benefits you gain from allowing your personality to come through is the added energy and drive from just being yourself. We always have more energy when we are not stressing out over things. This might sound trivial, but it has some amazing benefits. The more you allow your personality to come through, the more everyone else will too. Suddenly, without even a question asked, the conversation will become even more open and you will learn even more.




TAKE YOUR BOSS TO WORK DAY



One of the easiest ways to ask tough questions is to bring your boss along on a sales call. The mere presence of your boss or some other senior-level person with you will automatically make the conversation more robust. I have always said a salesperson and their boss can ask a customer the exact same question and the answer they hear will be completely different. Something happens when there is a second person along on a sales call. Questions and the conversations will almost always be much better.

If you are an account manager with specific accounts, I cannot stress enough the importance of taking your boss with you on sales calls. This is especially true early in the fiscal year. Early in the year is the perfect time to find out from a customer what their challenges are going to be for the year. You can ask about new initiatives and other topics of interest all with one objective, to uncover incremental opportunities.

Never hold back on asking questions. No question is too tough. The more difficult the question, the greater the reward you may uncover.





CHAPTER 24

The Value of Hearing “No”





“Don’t let what you cannot do interfere with what you can do.” —JOHN R. WOODEN





SPEAK WITH ANYONE who quit a sales job where the focus was prospecting and you will get an earful. One of the top reasons you will hear they quit is because they got tired of having doors slammed in their face. Whether it be in person, on the phone, or even through an email, being rejected is not something anyone wakes up desiring to have happen to them. I do have to laugh at all of the creative ways people say “no” to salespeople and the descriptive terms they add to their no.

Despite having heard “no” thousands of times at every level of the sales process, there is one thing that has never happened. I have said it before and I will say it again: I have never lost a drop of blood, no animals were ever harmed, and no children were ever put in harm’s way. No is merely a word. And best of all, hearing the word allows us the opportunity to never forget.




“No” is never permanent. It is only a moment in time.




We can all remember Mom or Dad telling us “no” and the word not meaning a thing. To us, it meant we just needed to ask again. It did not matter how many times we had to ask. We were on a mission to get to a “yes.” We knew as children how to push the right buttons. We knew which parent we could wear down first and get them to say “yes.” This was a skill we mastered. It does leave me thinking, why should we not be surprised when our own children do the same to us?

Something funny happened to us when we went from being innocent children to adults. Somewhere through that growing-up process, the word no took on a personal, more emotional feeling. It may have been in middle school, being told you did not make the team. Maybe it was the trauma of rejection by our dream date for the senior prom. To make it hurt more, the person who rejected you instead went to prom with your best, now ex-friend. Hearing “no” or being rejected in any form soon became a pain-filled, emotional experience. It is a shame we lost the innocence of repeatedly asking for things we are passionate about. When I say we have lost the innocence, I am describing people in general. You, however, are not general. You are in sales and on a mission to help others.

No might only be two letters, but it has numerous definitions. Merriam-Webster defines it as an adverb, an adjective, and a noun. I love that there are so many different definitions. It gives me the cover I need to ask whoever tells me “no” why they are saying “no.”

Surprising to me is the number of salespeople I have worked with who fail to ask anything after hearing “no.” They hear “no” and they fold up their tent and move on down the road. I have seen this happen at each phase of the sales process from prospecting to closing the deal. To these people, once they hear “no,” it is game over. For me, hearing “no” is a starting point. It is at this point I believe the best conversation is about to occur.

First up is understanding what is meant by the word no. This is why I cannot stress enough to always view hearing “no” as only a moment in time and never permanent. The more you believe in how you can help a customer, the stronger your determination will be to keep going. I always see a direct correlation between the salesperson who accepts “no” and their level of confidence. If you don’t have confidence in how you can help a customer, then any setback you hear becomes damaging.

Dr. Willie Jolley is the most optimistic person I have ever met. He has taken his message of optimism around the world, and his quote about the word no is priceless. “You must be willing to stand on a mountain of ‘no’s’ in order to get a ‘yes.’ ‘No’ is now my power vitamin. The more I hear it, the stronger I get.” If you have ever heard Willie speak, as you read that quote, you were hearing his voice. Hearing “no” is a vitamin. Do not think for one moment Dr. Jolley isn’t experienced in hearing “no.” His story is one of thousands of rejections and yet he is more energized today than ever. He truly does take his own vitamins!

When working with salespeople, I will ask them how often they hear “no” from a customer. What I want to find out is how they respond when they hear “no.” Their response reveals a lot about them and salespeople in general, regardless of the level or type of sales they are in. It is easy to say it is all about confidence, but it is more than that. It is also about being prepared mentally with how to respond.

The easiest way to deal with both is by being prepared ahead of time with two lists. One is a list of engaging questions you want to ask. The second list is more direct. It is a list of responses you are prepared to give if you hear “no.” This is one more reason I believe in gaining information by industry. What works for one prospect or customer will typically work for another in the same industry.




THE TWO REASONS CUSTOMERS SAY “NO”



When a person says “no” to you, they are doing so for one of two reasons. First, they may not have time to talk due to other things they deem more important or, second, they do not see enough value to either continue the discussion or buy. These are two completely different reasons, and a big mistake is made if you think they are the same. The person who is saying no due to other items on their agenda they deem as more important is an issue. Your challenge is to recognize this as their issue, not yours. It is your job to provide them with an option that better fits their time or agenda. Naturally, the sooner you can continue the discussion, the better. Regardless, it is still a decision the other person controls.

When the customer tells you “no” due to them not seeing enough value or not having interest, this is a “no” you control. It is up to you to help them see the value. The value is the reason you want to talk to them. Do not wander at this point into asking something hypothetical. Zero in on their needs by asking a question based on what you have heard is their biggest need in the past. Stay tight and be as specific as you can. If the customer has not provided you with an indication of their needs, then ask a profile question. A profile question is one a person in a similar role would find valuable.




ENGAGE EARLY



One of the best ways to decrease hearing “no” is by engaging early in the conversation in questions about the customer. Despite everything that has been said and written about how to handle a sales call, many still get it wrong. There is still too much time spent on sharing the backstory about you and your company. The customer does not have time. Even at the prospecting phase, they do not want to hear about your company awards. If this is the way you want to conduct a sales call, go for it. By making it about you, I hope you hear “no” from the customer loud and often.

Go on the offense to uncover their needs right from the start. Do not shy away from asking tough questions. You want a conversation, which means engaging them quickly. You will not have a way to respond to a “no” until you know what their needs are. The objective is to be prepared with a response if you do hear a “no” at any step along the way.

There is a reason why this book has a chapter on selling fast. Nobody has time to waste. Hearing a “no” saves time because it allows you to drill down harder. When you go deep with questions early in the sales process, the customer is going to view you differently. This is especially true if what you sell is a service. How you sell to a customer is a reflection of how they see your company serving them when they do buy. Being willing to risk hearing “no” by asking tough questions accelerates the process.

First, think through what is being said. From the moment the first prospecting call is made, right up to asking for the order, everything must be about the needs of the customer. I will not repeat here everything I wrote in High-Profit Prospecting about prospecting. I will only share a couple items. You have to be asking a question within the first five seconds of a prospecting call. With each conversation you have with a prospect, your objective is to uncover a new piece of information about them. You cannot uncover anything if you are doing all the talking. Your number one objective with every interaction with a prospect or customer is to secure a next step by creating engagement.

When you can get the prospect to share some information with you, it now gives you something to follow up with them about. By asking them a question about what they shared in a previous call, you create a deeper level of engagement. People who are engaged will continue to share, and the more they share, the more you learn. Step back for a moment and realize how easy this concept is; all you are doing is having a conversation that puts the other person first.

Now let’s deal with the lack of confidence. The best way to deal with this is by doing the exercise I talked about in an earlier chapter—making a list of your customers. On the list, you record all of the ways you have helped them. You list the outcomes they have received from working with you. When you build it out, this list is going to give you a tremendous amount of confidence. Let me be blunt again:




If you have the ability, you have the responsibility, even if this means interrupting.




I love this line for one simple reason: you cannot allow yourself to ever accept hearing “no” from a customer and giving up. You know you can help the other person, which means you have a responsibility to contact them. They may not know it yet, they may reject you, but they are doing so only because they do not yet know you can help them.

Andrea Waltz, in her book, Go for No writes:



Instead of fearing and avoiding “no,” high-performing salespeople learn to value it. Once you can value “no,” you often have unexpected wins because getting a “no” has the potential to open you up to new opportunities.

Always start with an open rather than a closed mindset when you get a no.

When average performers get a no, they think the process is over. When top performers hear the word no, they think the process is just getting started.

In the moment you get a no, simply choose to see it as a detour. And whatever you do, stay positive. If a no has value, and it does, there’s no reason to show any outward frustration or disappointment.

Whether you choose to do it immediately or as part of your follow up, keep the dialog open. For example, saying, “I understand. But out of curiosity, what is the reason you’re not moving forward?” Or, “I really appreciate you telling me no. Would you mind telling me the reason so I can understand how we might be able to serve you in the future?” And this is where you can get new or missing information that changes everything.



“No” is never permanent. Macho people are quick to throw out phrases like “what does not kill me can only make me stronger,” and numerous other variations of that line. That may seem crude, but it is very true. We have nothing to lose when we push back and ask questions after hearing “no” from a customer. I will go one step further. When the customer says “no,” they are the ones who are losing. They are losing because they failed to see the value in how you could assist them. This does not mean I blame them. No, I blame myself for failing to engage them enough to see the real value.





CHAPTER 25

Not All Prospects and Customers Are the Same





“Count today a privilege to be able to learn from those you meet and share with those you care about.” —MARK HUNTER





TIME TO BLAST another sales myth. We have all been told you never walk away from a customer. You keep calling on them until they buy. It might be six weeks, it might be six months, it might be six years, but you never walk away. Ready for my response?




“You can walk away from a prospect or a customer, and it can be the best thing you do.”




Time is the one asset you cannot make more of in your life. You and I are both limited to twenty-four hours in a day. In that 24-hour period there is a host of things we cannot escape, like sleeping, eating, and personal hygiene, to name just a few. These all take time. This means the time I have left must be spent in the most productive manner possible.

The idea that you never walk away from a prospect, or whatever you want to call them, is a good way to starve. You have to eat; this means you need to make sales. I would rather take the pain of beating my head against the wall than chasing a bad prospect. Do not kid yourself. You and everyone else have had prospects who, even after contacting them one thousand times, would never buy from you.




PROSPECTS: REPEAT AD NAUSEAM



The drill is simple. You keep reaching out to the customer for as many times as necessary until they buy. I am having a hard time understanding how repeating something ad nauseam is going to result in a different result. This is not a license to give up on any prospect after four or five attempts—absolutely not! It is a license to understand the correlation between your time and the value of the opportunity.

If the value of the big prospect you are calling on repeatedly is equal to your annual goal, then yes, keep going. Your investment of time has the potential for a massive payout. Now, if that same opportunity has very little chance of ever working out regardless of what you do, then you need to question your time. Buying lottery tickets might be a better use of your time and money.

You may have smaller prospects you can reach out to quickly. These may very well be ones you keep going after. Although the reward might be low, the time required is minimal. The key here is having the right balance. Salespeople who only chase the big whales can in time become very discouraged if things do not happen quickly enough. The salesperson who can only land small deals might be happy initially but become frustrated at never being able to make the big money. The key is balance; your pipeline needs to have a mix of prospects.

Despite what people will say about never giving up on a prospect regardless of who they are, you do need to be smart. There is no perfect solution. I have found it comes down to five things you need to evaluate:



1.Size of the opportunity

2.Probability of closing

3.Number of other potential prospects

4.Value of your time

5.Are there critical reasons to my company I need to consider?



Do not under any circumstances make your decision an emotional one. This gets people into trouble and will have you either cutting off a great opportunity too soon or wasting valuable time beating a dead horse.

My rule is simple: keep your pipeline full but make sure each opportunity has earned the right to be in your pipeline. Walking away from a prospect does not have to be permanent. When it comes to sales, nothing is permanent. Sometimes for your sanity, it is best to take a sabbatical and come back to them a few months down the road.

The same thing applies to a current customer who is giving you nothing but grief. This is the customer you and everyone else in your company cannot seem to make happy. You have four choices with these customers. One is to continue to be in pain over this customer. Two is to hit your head against the wall as a way to dull your senses. Three, you can allow your competitor to have the privilege of serving the customer. Or four, you can renegotiate the relationship.




THE CUSTOMER YOU WANT TO FIRE



We all have customers we wish would go away. If you do not have one currently, continue reading, because you will get one soon enough. Worst of all, the customer will emerge when you least expect it. Yes, this is a controversial issue. The number of times I have been in heated discussions with clients about bad customers is too many to count. If you have your own company, congratulations, the only tough conversation you will have is with yourself!

Before looking at firing any customer, you first need to ask how the situation came to be in the first place. Too often, bad customers are a result of a faulty sales process and the creation of false expectations. On numerous occasions, I have found a bad customer was let in the door because a salesperson was desperate to make their number. If this is the case, then you are to blame. Congratulations, you own the problem! Bad customers are not born—I believe they are created by bad sales processes. Remember, the sales process is a two-way street: the customer is looking at you, and you are looking at them. Stated in simpler terms, it is business dating.

If expectations cannot be met, then by all means, it is best to cut ties. You are kidding yourself if you think somehow more time will work things out. The sooner you cut ties, the better everyone will feel. Allowing your competitor to have the opportunity to stress out over them should allow you to sleep better.

If it is merely a customer service issue requiring more attention, the solution may lie in a price increase. Certainly, taking a price increase is not something that is a universal solution but is one that is available in varying forms to many companies. Taking a price increase does not have to be complicated. Do not belabor the issue. You tell the customer the new price and if they reject it, congratulations, they just fired themselves.

You do not have time to waste on customers who do not appreciate your service and the value you and your company create for them. You also do not have to waste it on prospects who will never buy. Life is too short. You are on a mission to help others. To allow you to do that, you have to know who not to be spending time with on a consistent basis.




YOU DO NOT HAVE STUPID CUSTOMERS



You do not walk away from a stupid customer, because you do not have stupid customers! Go ahead, walk around telling others you have stupid customers. Before long, you will be saying “stupid customers” in front of a customer. Customers are not born stupid. Stupid customers are a product of stupid salespeople! If you do not believe it, ask a customer if they are stupid. I doubt they will say they are stupid. Great salespeople do not walk around saying they have stupid customers.

Stupid customers are a figment of a salesperson’s mind. The image comes up as an excuse for customers who are not doing what we want them to. It can be tempting to say the reason a customer is not making a decision to buy is because they are stupid. Excuse me—it is our job to educate the customer! If we are saying a customer is stupid, then it is an indictment of our inability to communicate. The thinking is, because the customer is stupid, there is nothing worth talking about and certainly nothing to learn. It is amazing how what we perceive about the customer becomes our own barrier to believing there is business to be gained.

Running around saying you have stupid customers will quickly create problems for you. Once you believe you have one stupid customer, it will not be long before you think you have a second. Fast forward and you will soon think all of your customers are stupid. Blaming the customer is going to block you from examining the real issue—that being your sales process. You are not taking the time to understand the customer’s needs. To be blunt, you may think you are listening, but do not kid yourself. You are not. You might be hearing what they say, but you are not valuing what they are sharing.

It does not matter what you think. The only thing that matters is what the customer thinks. It is about listening; it is not about lecturing. Listening to the customer allows us to know what they are thinking. How can we shape anyone’s thinking if we do not know what they are thinking? Sales demos frequently fail because they are nothing but a one-way conversation. We must view ourselves as teachers who need to teach by engaging. The better the job we do engaging the customer, the smarter they will become.

The distaste I have toward calling a customer or anyone else stupid hits me at the core of what I believe sales is all about. Sales is about influencing and impacting others. Our goal is to help them see and achieve what they did not think was possible. For me to be successful, I have to lift up everyone. Nobody is going to be lifted up if they are told they are stupid or have the belief somebody views them as stupid.

The idea of stupid customers is especially fatal among team members. Working with a company recently, I had the opportunity to be with salespeople and their inside support groups. There was one salesperson who had a massive ego and was not afraid to flaunt it. As you can imagine, this meant he was quick to blame others for anything that did not go right. He was quick to say how stupid customers were. His ego also had him throwing in a few other distasteful words along the way. This was his way of making himself look superior, but the negative impact was huge. There was not one person inside the company who trusted him. Nobody liked helping him and, as a result, people gave him a minimal amount of support. Customers felt it too—many reported back to others in the company how they did not like working with him. This resulted in a complete lack of influence and impact. And this loss is now causing customers to go elsewhere. Additionally, inside employees have left because of this individual. I suspect by the time this book is published, the larger-than-life salesperson, along with his ego, will be gone too. Go ahead, think of your customers as being stupid. While you are at it, make sure you call yourself stupid too. Don’t stop there. Go ahead and update your resume. You will need it.

You may not be a person who walks around saying you have stupid customers. I at least hope you do not do this. But this is not good enough; you cannot afford to be around people who do. I find customer service teams and other inside teams can be the worst offenders. Because there are no customers in the room with them, they feel the freedom to say what they want. They fail to realize that what you say is a reflection of how you feel, and how you feel will quickly become how you act.

Make it your priority to lift up your customers and put them in a positive light. The comments support personnel make can come back to haunt you if left unchecked. There should be zero tolerance for any type of negative talk in any form about customers. It is your mind. You cannot afford to have anything entering it that will not keep you from being 100 percent focused on helping others.





SECTION V


The Future of Sales





“The best way to predict your future is to create it.”

—ABRAHAM LINCOLN





CHAPTER 26

You Do Not Close a Sale. You Begin a Relationship.





“Make a customer, not a sale.” —KATHERINE BARCHETTI





WHY DO WE call it “closing a sale”? If we think we are helping the customer by selling to them, isn’t the word closing dumb? I sure think so, and I think using the phrase “closing the sale” is wrong. It risks putting us in the wrong frame of mind. When we close a sale, we are opening a relationship. It does not matter what it is the customer is buying from you. The last thing you want it to be is an end.




The only good sale is one that leads to the next sale.




The easiest business you will ever get is going to come from existing customers. They are either buying more or referring you to someone who will buy from you. From the moment you are about to get the first sale with a customer, you already have to be planning for the next sale.

When your mindset shifts to “opening” rather than “closing,” it is amazing how you will look at things differently. You will be far likelier to contact the customer. You will contact them again because your mindset has shifted. I know it sounds absurd that changing one word will make this big of a difference. Trust me, it does. I have seen the results play out with thousands of salespeople.

Viewing what you do as opening a relationship will change how you look at customer records. One of the easiest ways to build your pipeline is by contacting every customer you have in your CRM system. It does not matter if it has been five years. Reach out and make the call. These are people who were buying from you or your company at one point in time. There is no reason they will not buy again. When I discuss this strategy, I will get pushback from some salespeople and managers. They will say how things have changed. They claim the same people will not be there. They might say they did not service them properly or any number of other excuses. It comes down to one thing: they are afraid of what they might hear. What a joke! Are your customers afraid of what they might hear? These were customers at one time. I would think you would want them back! I don’t care what happened or what you think might have happened; it is time to call them.

In my book High-Profit Prospecting, I have a chapter focused on this subject. I suggest reading it—there is money written all over it. Reaching out and staying in touch with every customer you have ever had, even those who you were never quite able to get to buy, is just plain smart. This may very well be you, but too often salespeople have only a few customers they can count on for business. It can become too easy to reach out to the few and miss the masses.

A few weeks after I spoke to an association made up of small business owners, I had an owner reach out to me. He commented that my remarks about looking at sales as opening a relationship rather than closing a sale were huge for his company. He came back from the conference and immediately began a process of calling every customer thirty days after the sale. As he shared with me what he was finding out, he said his eyes were opening up to what he was unlocking with the calls. He was getting positive feedback for his employees and a slew of referrals and additional work. Once his salespeople started to see results, he kept them on the phones working their way back through the previous year. The last I heard, he was intending to call every customer going back to when the company was founded.

There are two numbers I want you to start tracking: the amount of business you receive from a customer after the initial purchase and the amount of business created through referrals and other sources as a result of the original customer. Tracking these two numbers will reveal some very interesting facts about how you sell. The number is also a keen indicator to the reputation you have created in the marketplace. In this world of instant communication, the value of your reputation has never been more important.

Fundamentally, you will be able to see the true value of how and what you are selling. If you are meeting and exceeding customer expectations, these numbers should always be increasing over the long-term. The other key insight these numbers reveal is how effective you are at staying engaged with the customer after the initial sale. I am blown away by the number of salespeople who disconnect from the customer after the initial sale. The new customer is now the property of “customer engagement” or some other lame name. These departments are too often focused solely on taking care of the orders that come in. They have no idea how to generate incremental business.

You cannot afford to look at a customer, regardless of what you sell, as a one-time transaction. It makes no sense why anyone would go through the process of trying to sell a deal to complete the deal and then walk away.

How much business are you missing out on? How many people are you not impacting because you are not reaching out? Making calls to past customers is a great sales activity to do on a Monday. Being able to call people who know you and have worked with you on a Monday is a great way to get motivated. Making the calls, you will hear positive comments about how you have helped them. The comments you hear will give you more talking points you can use with prospects. Your calls will most likely generate at a least a few referrals and business. What a great way to start the week!





CHAPTER 27

Next-Gen Sales





“The only limit to our realization of tomorrow will be our doubts of today.” —FRANKLIN D. ROOSEVELT





THE FUTURE OF sales is bright. I am bullish on the role the salesperson plays. It does not matter where I am or what I am doing; if I hear somebody talking about sales in any form, my ears perk up. Sales is my passion, I admit. I suspect you feel the same way. You may not feel as obsessed with sales as I am, and that is okay. I am fine with it. The question is, how do you respond when somebody is talking about sales? I am all ears, because I see myself as a protector, defender, and promoter of the industry.

Our role in sales is much more than selling something to someone. Our role in sales is to be the research and development department to everyone we meet. This includes our customers and everyone else. I do not view sales as something that is in limited supply. Sales is full of unlimited opportunities, and the more we share, the better we all become.

There is something magical about teaching; when you teach, it is amazing how much you learn. If we want to become better salespeople, one way to improve is by teaching others how to sell. This is a big reason I heavily promote the idea of every salesperson having someone they are mentoring. Over the years, I have mentored hundreds of salespeople in both formal and informal roles, and each one has made an impact on me.

We all need to make ourselves available to help others, and when I say “help others,” I mean people at all phases of their sales careers. I have the pleasure of talking with salespeople and sharing ideas with them; there’s never a discussion that does not excite me too. The level of learning I get is, many times, vastly more valuable than what the other person receives.

A few weeks ago, I had lunch with Casanova Brooks. Yes, that is his real name, and yes, I agree, it is one neat name. Casanova exploded onto the residential real estate scene in Omaha a couple of years ago. Talking with him, you quickly catch his infectious personality and desire to learn. I asked him, “In an industry where there is an oversupply of agents, what enabled you to be successful?” His answer was his ability to connect and learn from others who have far more experience. He was tapping into the sales community to learn but, in so doing, he was giving back. I challenged him as to what his goals were. He did not miss a beat and immediately began sharing. Our conversation was both wide and deep and, all along the way, meaningful to both of us. I left that lunch pumped and even more motivated because of what he was doing. He left that lunch with ideas. We both left the lunch better off for having met.

There is only one thing worse than unused talent, and that is misused talent. It is our job as members of the sales community to reach out and help others. Who can you be reaching out to today? Who is reaching out to you? The sales community is only as strong as we the salespeople in the community. It is our job—no, it is our mission—to be giving unselfishly of our talents to others. Over the years, there have been so many who poured so much of their time into helping me. It is only right for me to pour into others in return.

The economy, both global and local, is driven by business. Without strong businesses, the economy will begin to struggle quickly. The only way a business succeeds is by having customers to sell to. This means sales is the lifeblood of business. I like to take it one step further by saying prospecting is what fuels sales. What does this mean? Simple—the strength of the economy is driven by the strength of the sales community, and it all starts with you.




ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE IS HERE



I do not care what others might say about the growth of artificial intelligence. The role the salesperson is never going to go away. In fact, I believe the role of the salesperson will increase in value in the years to come. The reason I say this is because of artificial intelligence. I do not buy into the idea there will be no more need for salespeople. Yes, there will be major areas of business artificial intelligence will replace. But for many areas, the opposite will hold true. Artificial intelligence may be intelligent, but it is still artificial. AI will only respond based on the norms it has been programmed with or the variables to which it is exposed.

Due to the number of flights I take each year, I encounter many opportunities to interact with artificial intelligence and live salespeople and customer service agents. My airline is American Airlines, and yes, I am a big fan of them. As one of their top-tier flyers, I have been at the Executive Platinum level for more years than I can remember. Every nuance of my travel history is in their computer system. I see the fruit of it when a flight is cancelled or delayed. If my flight is delayed and my ability to make a connecting flight is at risk, I get an alert. Not only do they alert me, but the system knows enough about me to provide me with one or two viable options. With just a click on my phone, it will even rebook me.

Sounds like a great use of automation doesn’t it? Yes, it is helpful but rarely is it the last piece of information I look at when making a decision. My knowledge of the American Airlines flight schedule and other airlines typically has me realizing there are other options. The course of action I take is to enlist the assistance of a live American Airlines representative. With them on the computer and my suggestions of options, we can see everything. We almost always come up with a better solution than the system’s suggestion. If this occurs at my home airport (OMA), the American Airlines representative and I most likely know each other, which makes it go even faster. It is amazing what happens when you are talking face-to-face and both parties respect each other. This level of service is never going to happen with artificial intelligence. Did the automated system let me know of the change? Yes, it even went as far as to suggest options. In the end, however, it was still a human being who provided me with the level of service I was looking for to get the job done.

Artificial intelligence will not create the demise of the salesperson; it will only change how the salesperson is used. As customers, the information we have available to us is far more than we can comprehend. Depending on the type of buying decision we are looking at, our acceptance or, should I say, tolerance of automated systems will vary.

You may ask if I feel all types of salespeople are safe and I say, “No.” There are some types of salespeople who will face an uncertain future. Their future is uncertain either because of what they’re selling or how they choose to sell. If you are a salesperson who is selling a basic, price-oriented item that can be purchased easily via the internet, your job is at risk. As technology grows and customers become more willing to interface with it, there will be no need for a salesperson. Even here, I remain bullish on the salesperson. There will always be segments of community who still demand human interaction.

Banking is an industry going through major disruption. The internet and artificial intelligence are putting many traditional bank jobs at risk. My smartphone does everything for me a bank teller used to do. The best part is, I do not have to get in a car. Better yet, my smartphone is open 24/7. These changes do not mean the banking profession is doomed. No, it just means they will do their job differently.

The role of the investment or financial planner is changing. Ten years ago, a client may very well have had 100 percent of their investments with a single financial planner. Today, the same client may have 50 percent of their investments being handled with online accounts, leaving only 50 percent for the planner. All that has changed for the planner is their need to have more clients to do the same volume as before. More clients means more questions and more things requiring the attention of the financial planner with customers. Ten years ago, a financial planner could not afford to be away from their desk during trading hours. Today, they have far more flexibility to be with customers during trading hours. This is where they now benefit from automation and artificial intelligence, because it can help them complete tasks more quickly. In the end, they can spend more of their time with customers than on processing transactions.

Another type of salesperson who will be severely impacted is the one who is lazy and thinks they can be successful by playing the customer service role and taking business as it comes to them. The person who comes to mind is the account manager who is nothing more than a caretaker. I will say it right now: caretakers work in cemeteries, and that is where the account manager who wants to behave like one belongs. They are doomed and doomed a lot faster than they realize. The biggest tragedy is that they will never see it coming, because they have their head buried so deep in the sand, they never see the incoming wave before it is too late.

Some may argue that customer service is a sales role, and yes, it is. However, I see sales not as a role of servicing business that is already happening. I see the role of sales as being focused on creating incremental sales. Customer service is the position I feel will be severely impacted by automation. Yes, there is irony in this situation. The role of customer service people—like your bank teller—is to help people, and yet this is the role that is going away. There is nothing we can do about it but help fill the gap with the customers. This is where salespeople get the opportunity to step up, see the need, and to step in to provide invaluable service.





CHAPTER 28

Do You Have a Mind for Sales?





“The most difficult thing is the decision to act; the rest is merely tenacity. The fears are paper tigers. You can do anything you decide to do. You can act to change and control your life; and the procedure, the process is its own reward.” —AMELIA EARHART





I AM WRITING this on a Saturday afternoon but am already excited about the calls to prospects and clients come Monday. When you have a mind for sales, you’re wired to love everything about sales and, in particular, Mondays. Throughout the book, I reference the importance of starting the week strong. To me, there is no better day of the week than Monday. I love Mondays. Then again, I love every day, because it gives me the privilege to learn and uncover new opportunities. Earlier in the book, I introduced to you the Success Wheel and the four parts of it—motivation, success, confidence, and momentum. Each part fuels the others. You cannot have any one of the four without the other three. For me, my objective is to make sure my success wheel is moving forward, not just on Monday but every day.

For me—and I hope you too—sales is much more than a job. To us, it is a lifestyle. People ask me what it takes to be a top-performing salesperson. It is a fair question. Here is my list of what it takes to be a great salesperson.



1.Top salespeople set goals. They certainly do, and the goals they set are ones average salespeople would cringe at as they read them. The attitude is simple: if the goal does not push the envelope of success, then it is not worth having as a goal. Every top-performing salesperson has at least one “moon shot” goal. What is your “moon shot” goal? More importantly, what is your plan to achieve your “moon shot” goal?

2.Top salespeople protect their time and the time of everyone they are with each day. Action-oriented people get more done not because they have more time; they get more done because they make more of the time they have. Not only do they protect and respect their time, but they respect others and their time too.

3.Top salespeople do not settle for average. Average is what other people shoot for each day. Great salespeople are never satisfied with average. To them, being average is failing. Top-performing salespeople find it uncomfortable to be around others who are comfortable being average. Who are the average salespeople you need to stop spending time with on a consistent basis?

4.Top salespeople use each day to influence and impact others with a goal of helping everyone they meet to succeed. It is a privilege to associate with others. This is why great salespeople are so excited for Monday. They start Monday and each day with a mission to make a difference.

5.Top salespeople see themselves as confident servant leaders. The ability to help others is not something great salespeople need to do—helping others is something they want to do. When you are a servant leader, it means putting others first, to the point of allowing them to take credit.

6.Top salespeople know the importance of prospecting and make it part of their daily routine. Nothing happens in business until something is sold, and nothing is sold until there are customers. Top salespeople know, if they want customers, they first must prospect. When you have a mind for sales, you are excited to prospect, too.

7.Top salespeople never end the day without knowing what they are going to accomplish the next day. It is impossible to be successful without subscribing to this trait. When you know what your objectives are for tomorrow, you will have better use of your mornings and you will sleep better.

8.Top salespeople are optimists not just while they are on the job but also in everything they do. An optimist is not created when times are good. Optimists are created when times are tough. As an optimist, you are the one who can think clearly in difficult situations. Optimism is your mind’s fuel driving the greatest potential outcomes.

9.Top salespeople never stop learning and continually look for ways to share their learning with others. A key difference between those who are average and those who are great is how they view knowledge. Becoming great is not something achieved at birth; becoming great is a journey, and it is rooted in learning. As a great salesperson, you know learning never ends because there is always more to learn. You know the more you learn, the more you can help others.

10.Top salespeople know they must continually evolve their sales process. Nothing remains the same. Just as customers change, so too does their sales process. Top salespeople are continually evaluating the work they do and finding ways to continue to improve. What key areas can you improve today?

11.Top salespeople own the process. While some may pass the buck and quickly blame others, the great salesperson accepts responsibility in everything. This does not mean they do everything—it means they know the power of being accountable, and the impact it has on getting things done.

12.Top salespeople do not stop at the end of the day. A great salesperson views sales as a 24/7 lifestyle. To some, this might seem like work. To the top-performing salesperson, what they do is not work. The great salesperson is passionate about what they do, and it is their passion to help others that gives them the energy to drive the mission forward 24/7.

13.Top salespeople have a high degree of integrity others can see every day and in everything. Trust is the currency of business, and trust is built on a foundation of integrity. Top salespeople know this and know the only reason they have become successful is because others have trusted them. Integrity is something you do not turn on or off when you desire. Integrity is something you build each day and unfortunately can lose in an instant.

14.Top salespeople are proud of what they do. Taking pride in what you do is not arrogance; it is not about being boastful by stepping on others. Being proud is being confident—knowing what you do makes a difference.

15.Top salespeople know it is the depth of their questions that will uncover the big opportunities. When you are living out each of the other items on this list, asking better questions just comes naturally. A great salesperson is driven by questions, as it is a key part of what fuels their excitement to talk to customers.

16.Top salespeople know success is not what they did yesterday, but what they will do today. Too many salespeople live in yesterday’s numbers. They feel the success they had last quarter makes them a better salesperson this quarter. A top performer knows each day stands on its own merit. This is a key reason they make Mondays a productive sales day.

17.Top salespeople have a peer network that holds them accountable and helps drive them forward. Successful salespeople know the value of associating with other successful salespeople. They know they can learn from each other and through learning challenge each other to a higher level of success. Being accountable to others is what drives the success of the group.

18.Top salespeople live each day to make the most of it and see every challenge as an opportunity. Each day is a gift to live to the fullest extent—there simply is nothing better. As wonderful as Monday is, the top performer makes the most of every day.



To some, Mondays might be a drag. But to you and to me, and every other great salesperson out there, Monday is the day to make it happen. I will leave you with two quotes that resonate deeply with me and why I am passionate about not just Monday but every day that follows:




“Only I can change my life. No one can do it for me.” —Carol Burnett




“What the mind can conceive and believe, it can achieve.” —Napoleon Hill




Join me at https://AMindforSales.com/community, and we will keep the discussion going.





ABOUT THE AUTHOR





MARK HUNTER grew up in Olympia, Washington. After graduating from Seattle Pacific University and having, as he says, “several false starts” career-wise, he successfully worked for two global companies in sales and marketing.

In 1998, Mark left the corporate world to become a consultant, speaker, and author—all under the name “The Sales Hunter.” Since then, Mark has been achieving at a high level while working with companies including BP, Sony, Kawasaki, and Lenovo, along with hundreds of others. Every year, he travels in excess of two hundred days. His clients have taken him to more than twenty-five countries on five continents.

It is Mark’s goal to influence others while helping salespeople and companies find and retain better prospects that they can sell to without discounts. He is a firm believer in creating trust and confidence with customers in order to gain high-value customers for life.

Mark’s passion for sales is also seen in the annual sales conference OutBound. He is privileged to be a cofounder of the biggest conference in the sales profession, geared exclusively to outbound selling. In just four years, this event has grown to include attendees from more than fifteen countries.

In addition to Mark’s constant travels, he is committed to his wife, Ann Marie, his two children, and his grandchildren. He also contributes his time and resources to several non-profits. Finally, and of most importance, Mark is devoted to his faith.

To find out more about Mark Hunter, visit www.TheSalesHunter.com and read his other books, High-Profit Prospecting and High-Profit Selling.





INDEX





accountability, 58

in mastermind groups, 98

of top salespeople, 198

for your use of assets, 83

actions

of difference-makers, 63–66

others impacted by, 83

administration, time spent on, 40

AI (artificial intelligence), 191–194

Aldrin, Buzz, 47

American Airlines, 192

“America’s Charisma Consultant,” 72

Apollo 11, 47

apps, 117–121

Armstrong, Neil, 47

artificial intelligence (AI), 191–194

asking questions, 161–166

about others’ objectives, 69

about your use of assets, 83

after hearing “no,” 38, 167–174

confidence reflected in, 161–162

to learn needs of customer, 171–172

of purchasing departments, 113

in qualifying leads, 151–152

and “send me some information” trap, 163–164

and speed of selling process, 156

by top salespeople, 199

when planning your day, 88, 89

aspirations of others, valuing, 68

asset(s), 81–84

building your mind, 91–94

network, 95–101

team, 103–114

time, 85–89

yourself as, 13

association, effects of, 84

attitude, 73, 196, 200

attraction

by charismatic people, 68

of customers, 58–61

Atwood, Jeff, on optimizing, 129

authenticity, of people in network, 99

average, 196



bad sales calls

overcoming, 20–21

resetting goals after, 41

banking industry, 193

Barchetti, Katherine, on making customers, 185

belief system, 18–19, 94

benefits, CRM information on, 131

Berkshire Hathaway, 91–92

blaming

of marketing, 136–137

of “stupid customers,” 179–182

blanket statements, 124

Blount, Jeb, 98

boss, on sales calls, 166

Brady, Tom, 19–20

brain, 93–94

Brooks, Casanova, 190

Buffett, Warren, 81

and Berkshire Hathaway meetings, 91–92

use of assets by, 81–83

building your mind, 91–94

Burg, Bob, 100–101

Burkey, Dana

in customer meetings, 107

planning approach of, 9–10

Burnett, Carol, on changing life, 200

business, as driver of economy, 191



Canavan, John, 68–69

Canfield, Jack, on what you want, 103

“capabilities presentation,” 155–156, 171

Cash, Price, Quote (CPQ) solution, 132

CFT, see Customer-Facing Time

charisma, 68, 71–72

Churchill, Sir Winston, 28

closing sales

as building relationships, 185–188

measurements of, 152

negotiation in, 56

responsibility for, 136

cold calls, 32–33

Colorado Auto Dealers Association, 76

“commission breath,” xxiii

company “capabilities presentation,” 155–156, 171

concern for others, 71

confidence

building, 172

in charisma, 71

from current customers, 21

with Monday goals, 7

and need for presentations, 165

reflected in questions you ask, 161–162

and sharing knowledge, 93

on Success Wheel, 7–8

of top salespeople, 197

connection

with customers after initial sale, 185–188

passion in, 74

personal, 68

as point of life, 77

with your biggest accounts, 104–105

continuous improvement, 198

Covey, Stephen, on decisions, 153

CPQ (Cash, Price, Quote) solution, 132

CRM (Customer Relationship Management), 129–133, 186

culture(s)

with charismatic leaders, 71

of Master Electronics, 70

Customer-Facing Time (CFT)

defined, 5

measuring, 39, 143–144

on Monday mornings, 5–6

customer focus, xxiii–xxiv

Customer Relationship Management (CRM), 129–133, 186

customers

asking tough questions of, 161–166

attracting, 58–61

creating incremental value for, 51–53

knowing customers of, 107–112

learning needs of, 171–172

lifetime value of, 142

listening to, 159–160

meaningful numbers related to, 142

opening relationships with, 185–188

outcomes of sales to, 35–36

passion expected by, 75

of purchasing agents, 112–114

sales managers’ time spent with, 106–107

seeing prospects as, 69–70

simplifying selling process for, 155–160

solutions for, 34

stupid, 179–182

time spent with, see Customer-Facing Time (CFT)

uncovering insights on, 157

understanding industries of, 92

and value of hearing “no,” 167–174

valuing time of, 156

walking away from, 175, 178–182

on your team, 104–105

customer service

as sales role, 194

sales vs., 49–53



decision making, 24, 74

“demonstration calls,” 164

difference-making, 63–72

impact of, 66–67

integrity in, 64

as point of life, 77

self-control in, 64, 65

see also impact on others

doubts, overcoming, 19–21

dreams, 45

Durant, Will, on habits, 9



Earhart, Amelia, on decision to act, 195

economy, driver of, 191

education, weekend worrying and, 10

Eisenhower, Dwight, 28

email

checking, 41–43

to customers about their customers, 110–111

emotional goals, 44

energy

focusing, 10, 44

passion as fuel for, 74–77

engaging others

after initial sale, 187–188

to decrease hearing “no,” 171–174

during sales calls, 68, 69

Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP), 132

ethics, 59



fans, 67

fear, 21–22

financial planners, 193–194

focus, 44

on sales, 53

on your greatest assets, 83

on your mission, 47

follow up calls, on Mondays, 5

Ford, Henry, on dividing jobs, 155

future of sales, 189–194



Gates, Bill, on computers, 123

Genesis 2:18, 96

goal(s), 37–47

in asking questions, 162–164

for CRM systems, 131

emotional, 44, 45

to impact others, 67

in mastermind groups, 98

measuring progress toward, 39–40

for Monday mornings, 6–7

of people in network, 99

planning, 11

to put others first, 72

resetting, 41

taking charge of, 43–45

and time management, 41–43

of top salespeople, 196

25-year, 45–47

for understanding customers’ industries, 92

valuing others’, 68

in working with marketing, 139

Godin, Seth, on products and customers, 135

Go for No (Andrea Waltz), 172–173

Graef, Phil, 62–64, 66, 75, 77

Gschwandtner, Gerhard, 93–94



hacks, 117–121

hard tasks/issues, tackling, 14

Hill, Napoleon, on the mind, 200

Holtz, Lou, on making yourself, 31

Hopkins, Tom, on expectations, 81

Iannarino, Anthony, 83–84, 98

if-then game, 127–128

impact on others, 66–67, 95

of Buffett, 82–83

as core of sales, 181

as driver of passion, 75, 77

as meaningful goal, 45

as point of life, 77

by putting others first, 72

of top salespeople, 197

of your actions, 83

see also difference-making

incremental value, creating, 51–53

industry information

in CRM, 131–133

finding, 157

influence

as core of sales, 181

people of, in your network, 96–97, 100–101

from putting others first, 72

sphere of, 100–101

of top salespeople, 197

information

leading to more information, 109–112

on social media, 127

integrity

in charisma, 71

in difference-making, 64

in mastermind groups, 98

and passion, 74

of people in network, 99

in prospecting, 58

of top salespeople, 198–199

in your and in your customers, 58–61

interactions with leads, 156

internet search tricks, 157

inward spiral of the mind, xxiii



Jackson, Tim, 76–77

Jerome, St., on the best, 79

Jobs, Steve, 52

Jolley, Willie, on “no,” 169

Jones, Charlie “Tremendous,” on who you are, 91



Kennedy, John F., on going to the moon, 46–47

Khera, Shiv, on selling, 55

knowledge

as compounding asset, 82

gained over time, 91

of purchasing agents’ customers, 112–114

reading for, 92

sharing, 93

of your customers’ customers, 107–109

Konrath, Jill

as connector, 84

on differentiation, 141

on seeing prospects as customers, 69–70

Korman, Cindy, 85, 86

Korman, Paul, 85



Lange, Christian Lous, on technology, 117

leaders

charismatic, 68, 71–72

true, 67

in your network, 99

leadership

as impacting those around you, 28–29

internal mindset for, 64

sales and, 27–30

self-, 17–25

by top salespeople, 197

leading indicators, 131–133

leads

Customer-Facing Time with, 144

interactions with, 156

and marketing as lead generator, 135–140

qualifying, 151–152

researching, 157, 158

risk with, 158

speed in responding to, 155–160

that turn into customers, 39

time spent in processing, 156, 157

value/quality of, 137, 138, 142–143, 147–152

see also prospecting

learning

about needs of prospects, 152

continuous, 108–109

form people and companies, 93

from reading, 92–93

by teaching, 190

by top salespeople, 198

legacy

creating, 75–77

defining, 46

of Graef, 75, 77

lifestyle, sales as, 31–36, 196

Lincoln, Abraham, on the future, 183

LinkedIn, 42, 123, 125–126

listening, 159–160, 180



MacKay, Harvey, on closes, 147

Maennig, Wolfgang, 9–10

Mandino, Og, on doing your best, 37

marketing, 135–140

blaming, 136–137

mindset of, 135

relationship with, 138–139

reporting relationship between sales and, 139–140

sales vs., 135–136

Marlin Industries, 6, 7

Master Electronics, 70, 71

mastermind group, 96–98, 100

McDonald’s, 64

measurement(s)

of Customer-Facing Time, 143–144

of pipeline, 152

of social media, 142

that mean nothing, 141–142

of use of assets, 39–40

Midwest Laboratories, 106–107

mind

as asset, 81–82

Buffett’s emphasis on growing, 82, 83

building your, 91–94

evaluating your use of, 83

Iannarino’s use of, 83–84

inward spiral of, xxiii

mastering your, 17–25

overcoming seeds of doubt in, 19–21

for sales, 195–200

see also mindset; minefields and mind traps

“A Mind for Sales” community, 15

mindset

and customer service vs. sales, 49–53

for difference-making, 63–72

and goals, 37–47

of marketing, 135

for Mondays as day for selling, 1–8

for negotiating, 55–61

of “opening” vs. of “closing,” 186

and passion, 73–77

in planning work, 9–15

for sales and leadership, 27–30

and sales as lifestyle, 31–36

for self-leadership, 17–25

selling impacted by, 93–94

minefields and mind traps

apps and hacks, 117–121

Customer Relationship Management, 129–133

numbers vs. quality, 141–145

perception of marketing as lead generator, 135–140

pipeline issues, 147–152

social selling, 123–128

mission

focusing on, 47

as focusing on sales, 53

mistakes, rehashing, 17–19

momentum, 7–8

Mondays, 195, 200

Buffett’s excitement about, 82

checking social media on, 42

as day for selling, 1–8

as “fun days,” 76, 77

getting organized on, 4, 12–13

making calls to past customers on, 188

mindset affected by, 94

planning steps for, 13–15

staying off social media on, 14–15

moon mission, 46–47

motivation, 7

by charismatic people, 68–69

from current customers, 21

for getting up early, 88

integrity as, 64

from making calls, 32

on Success Wheel, 7–8

from your emotional goals, 44

Munger, Charlie, 92

Myhrvold, Nathan, on software, 115

negotiation, 55–61

and level of trust, 56–57, 59

passion in, 74

and price reductions, 59–61

selling prior to, 57

network(s), 95–101

as asset, 81–82

Buffett’s availability to his, 82, 83

evaluating your use of, 83

Iannarino’s use of, 83–84

levels of, 96–97

of top salespeople, 199

value of, 82, 101

network triangle, 96–97

mastermind group in, 96–98

people of influence in, 96–97, 100–101

subject-matter experts in, 96–97, 99

next-gen sales, 189–194

Nizam, Riad, 71

“no”

interpreted as rejection, 167, 168

questions about hearing, 38

value of hearing, 167–174

Nordstrom, 150

Norton, Kordell, 72

numbers

quality vs., 141–145

to track business received/created, 187–188

tracked on spreadsheets, 144–145

see also measurement(s)



objective(s)

asking about others’, 69

of challenging customers’ ideas, 52

for CRM system, 132

for mastermind group, 98

numbers- vs. quality-focused, 143

in prospecting calls, 33–34

offers made–deals closed ratio, 40

office work, time spent on, 40

opening relationships, 185–188

optimism, 197

outcome(s)

CRM information on, 131–132

desired by customers, 34

incremental, 52

of sales, 35–36



passion, 73–77

energy fueled by, 74–77

of goals, 44–45

placing “bumpers” on, 74

and spreadsheet jockeys, 145

of top salespeople, 198

people of influence, 96–97, 100–101

perceptions of salespeople, 34, 55

personal connection, 68

personality

of difference-makers, 66

revealing your, 165–166

pipeline(s)

building, 186

clogged, 148

measurements of, 152

mix of prospects in, 177

quality of, 142–143, 147–152, 177

“pizza goal,” 6–7

planning, 9–15

to know customers of your customers, 109

to make best use of time, 87

for managing your week, 11–15

for Mondays, 9–15

questions to ask when, 88, 89

by top salespeople, 197

Pohlman, Brent, 106–107

positive thinking, 13

presentations, 164–165

price quotes, 158–159

price reductions, negotiating, 59–61

pride in work, 199

priority management, 86

productivity

busyness vs., 87

of early risers, 88

Jackson’s approach to, 76–77

on Mondays, 5–6

reviewing your days for, 88–89

software tools for, 117–121

and team culture, 71

profile questions, 171

prospecting

with integrity and trust, 58

leads for, 136–137, 147–152

number of calls in, 39–40

objective in, 33–34

and quality of pipeline, 147–152

“send me some information” trap in, 163–164

time spent in, 143–144

by top salespeople, 197

walking away from prospects, 176–178

see also leads

purchasing departments, 112–114



quality

of leads, 137, 138, 142–143, 147–152

numbers vs., 141–145

of pipeline, 142–143, 147–152, 177

questions, see asking questions

quick price quotes, 158–159



rainmaking, 138–139

reading, to build mind, 91–93

rejection, 167

relationships

with marketing, 138–139

in mastermind group, 98

of others in your company with your accounts, 105–106, see also team(s)

revealing your personality in, 165–166

with senior-level people, 111

when closing sales, 185–188

with your biggest accounts, 104–105

reputation, 57

researching leads, 157, 158

resetting goals, 41

respect for others, 71

responsibility, accepting, 198

reviewing our days, 88–89

Richter, Sam, 127, 157

risk

of hearing “no,” 172

with leads, 158

Rohn, Jim

on people you spend time with, 95

on running the day, 85

Roosevelt, Franklin D., on limits of tomorrow, 189



SaaS solutions, 117–121

sales

artificial intelligence in, 191–194

as business dating, 178

closing, 185–188

creating incremental value in, 51–53

customer service vs., 49–53

defined, 29–30

differing definitions of, 50

leadership and, 27–30

as lifestyle, 31–36, 196

marketing vs., 135–136

as mental game, 13

mind for, 195–200

from new customers, 39

next-gen, 189–194

passion for, 73–77

reason for choosing career in, 49–50

reporting relationship between marketing and, 139–140

role in, 189–190, 194

as team sport, 103–104

see also selling

sales calls

bad, 20–21, 41

bringing boss along on, 166

cold calls, 32–33

emotions engendered by, 31–32

on Mondays, 5–6

scheduling, 12

Sales Intel Engine, 127

sales manager

goals set by, 43–44

on your team, 106–107

salespeople

impacted by artificial intelligence, 193–194

others’ perceptions of, 34, 55

as rainmakers, 138–139

reasons for becoming, 49–50

reporting by, 131

role of, 189–190, 194

selling team members for, 67–72

selling to other salespeople, 126

top-performing, 196–200

turnover of, 50

sales presentations, 164–165

Sandberg, Sheryl, on leadership, 27

scoreboards, 141–143

Seattle Police Department, xxi–xxii

self-control, 64, 65

self-leadership, 17–25

selling

impact of mindset on, 93–94

negotiating after, 57

negotiating in, 55–61

quick price quotes vs., 158–159

simplifying process of, 155–160

social, 123–128

to yourself, 30

see also sales

selling team, see team(s)

“send me some information” trap, 163–164

service, team culture and, 71

Shimadzu, 66–67

Silverstein, Sam, 98

sleep

minimizing time spent in, 85–87

need for, 74

smartest people, 103

smartphones, 51–52

social media

comparing self with others on, 38

measuring, 142

on Mondays, 14–15

power of, 127

selling via, 123–128

time spent in checking, 41–42

social selling, 123–128

software solutions, 117–121

solutions

buying, 34

owning, 70–71

software, 117–121

speed in selling, 155–160

sphere of influence, 100–101

spreadsheets, 144–145

stamina, 77

Stone, W. Clement, on attitudes, 73

stress, 9–10

stupid customers, 179–182

subject-matter experts, 96–97, 99, 100

success(es), 7

achieving, 24

and amount of activity, 86

of early risers, 88

and measuring results, 38–39

recapping, 13

on Success Wheel, 7–8

and team culture, 71

top salespeople’s view of, 199

Success Wheel, 7–8, 195–196

Sundays

getting ready for Mondays on, 9–10

planning steps for, 11–13



talent, 191

tasks, allotting time to, 12

teaching, 190

team(s), 103–114

culture of, 71

customer’s customers on, 107–112

and idea of “stupid customers,” 181

members of your selling team, 67–72

purchasing departments on, 112–114

sales manager on, 106–107

your place on others’, 69

see also network(s)

technology, 117–121

10-Step Game Plan for Managing Your Week, 11–15, 41

thanking people, scheduling time for, 13–14

thinking

objectivity in, 74

positive, 13

shocking your, 87

time, 85–89

as asset, 81–82

Buffett’s use of, 82, 83

controlling, 88

evaluating your use of, 83

in following risky leads, 158

Iannarino’s use of, 83–84

knowledge gained over, 91

to learn needs of prospects, 152

in processing leads, 156, 157

for prospecting, 143–144

and quality of leads, 142

for reading, 92–93

spent on bad prospects/customers, 176–179

of top salespeople, 196

value of your customer’s time, 156

time management, 41–43

priority management vs., 86

with prospecting calls, 149–150

10-step plan for, 11–15

Tommy Boy (movie), 6–7

Tracy, Brian, 14

trust

and level of negotiation, 56–57, 59

in mastermind groups, 98

in prospecting, 58

in top salespeople, 198–199

25-year goals, 45–47



Uber, 29



value

creating incremental, 51–53

generating, 89

of growing the mind, 82

of hearing “no,” 167–174

of leads, 137, 138, 142–143, 147–152

of mastermind group, 97–98

of network, 82, 101

of others’ goals and aspirations, 68

and passion, 73

of prospects, 176–177

of things measured, 38, 40

vaporware, 121, 132



walking away from prospects/customers, 175–182

Walmart, 150

Waltz, Andrea, 172–173

weekend worrying, 10

Weinberg, Mike, 98

on presenting, 49

on sales as a verb, 30

“why,” defining your, 53

windows, groping activities into, 12

wisdom, 97

Wooden, John R., on what you can do, 167

words, of difference-makers, 66

working out, 14

World War II, 28



yourself

as an asset, 13

leading, 17–25

selling to, 30



Ziglar, Zig

on being great, 63

on mission, 3





